United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
31st plenary meeting
Friday, 2 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Arrocha Ruíz 
(Panama), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 69
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/73/53 
and A/73/53/Add.1)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
connection  with  this  item,  I  would  recall  that  the 
General Assembly decided, at its 3rd plenary meeting, 
on  21  September  2018,  to  consider  agenda  item  69  in 
plenary meeting and in the Third Committee, pursuant 
to resolution 65/281, of 17 June 2011.
I  shall  now  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
President of the General Assembly.
“I welcome the President of the Human Rights 
Council,  Ambassador  Vojislav  Šuc,  who  will 
present  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
contained in documents A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1 
to the General Assembly.
“I  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight  the 
remarkable efforts of Ambassador Šuc to improve 
the working methods of the Council.
“Upon assuming the presidency of the General 
Assembly, I insisted on the importance of making 
the  United  Nations  more  relevant  to  all  people. 
In  order  to  achieve  that  goal,  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  is  vital.  Since  its  creation 
as a subsidiary body of the General Assembly, the 
Human  Rights  Council  continually  contributes, 
through  its  various  mechanisms,  procedures  and 
resolutions,  to  the  development  of  international 
human rights law.
“Furthermore, it undertakes essential work on 
the human rights situation around the world. In that 
regard,  I  highlight  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
as  a  key  mechanism  for  observing  the  progress 
and  challenges  in  the  area  of    human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms in all countries.
“The protection of human rights is indispensable, 
if  we  want  to  achieve  the  main  goal  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  namely,  to 
eradicate poverty in all its forms and dimensions. In 
that regard, the work of the Human Rights Council 
contributes to the efforts of the General Assembly 
towards the fulfilment of the 2030 Agenda and our 
aim to leave no one behind. We must continue with 
our  efforts  to  improve  coordination  and  synergy 
between the various bodies and mechanisms of the 
United Nations system, avoiding any duplication or 
overlapping of work.
“In  December,  the  General  Assembly  will 
convene two plenary meetings to commemorate the 
seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights;  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 
for  Landlocked  Developing  Countries;  and  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Declaration  on  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-35714 (E)
*1835714*

A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
Right  and  Responsibility  of  Individuals,  Groups 
and  Organs  of  Society  to  Promote  and  Protect 
Universally  Recognized  Human  Rights  and 
Fundamental Freedoms.
“Those  events  offer  a  unique  opportunity 
to  convey  to  the  world  a  clear  message  about  the 
importance  of  strengthening  the  human  rights 
system  of  the  Organization,  including  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  and  to  reaffirm  that  all  people, 
without discrimination, should be protected in their 
dignity and their rights.”
In  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
65/281, I now give the floor to His Excellency Vojislav 
Šuc, President of the Human Rights Council.
Mr. Šuc (President, Human Rights Council): It is 
an  honour  and  a  great  pleasure  for  me  to  present  the 
annual  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/73/53 
and  A/73/53/Add.1)  today.  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
congratulating  the  18  newly  elected  members  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  I  have  full  confidence  that 
all  members  will  work  hard  to  uphold  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  around  the  world  and 
at home.
This  year  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights.  That  celebration  provides  an  opportunity  for 
all  of  us  to  review  how  much  we  have  accomplished, 
where we stand and what should be our way forward. 
The  times  are  challenging,  and  our  response  to  those 
challenges  should  be  resolute.  That  also  gives  us  the 
opportunity to assess whether the fundamental role that 
human rights play within the United Nations system has 
been sufficiently upheld by the international community 
and how we can reinforce that role in future. Bearing 
that in mind, we cannot but recognize that the Human 
Rights Council has played, in its 12 years of existence, 
a central role in addressing human rights violations on 
a global scale.
It  has  established  well-functioning  mechanisms 
through  which  it  shares  information  and  investigates 
and provides recommendations on a variety of human 
rights issues, from civil and political to economic, social 
and cultural rights. It plays an important role in raising 
early  warnings  for  looming  crises.  Through  technical 
assistance and cooperation, it helps build resilience and 
stability within our societies.
This year’s work of the Human Rights Council has 
been  summarized  in  the  report  before  the  Assembly, 
which lists the activities of as well as the resolutions, 
decisions  and  President’s  statements  adopted  by  the 
Council at its three regular sessions, as well as at two 
special  sessions,  held  in  December  2017  and  May 
2018, respectively.
Since December 2017, the Council has adopted 87 
resolutions, of which 53 were adopted without a vote. 
Some  of  the  resolutions  represented  cross-regional 
initiatives,  including  those  on  country-specific  issues. 
That has reaffirmed the capacity of the Council to take 
action on important human rights issues by overcoming 
differing political positions.
One  such  example  is  resolution  39/2,  adopted  in 
September,  on  the  situation  of  the  human  rights  of 
Rohingya Muslims and other minorities in Myanmar. In 
the light of the findings of the Independent International 
Fact-finding Mission on Myanmar, the Council decided 
to  establish  an  independent  mechanism  to  collect, 
consolidate,  preserve  and  analyse  evidence  of  the 
most  serious  international  crimes  and  violations  of 
international law, as well as to prepare for independent 
criminal proceedings.
Syria has continued to be high on the agenda of the 
Council  throughout  the  year,  and  the  mandate  of  the 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  on 
the Syrian Arab Republic has been extended for another 
year. The Council has also considered the reports of the 
Commission of Inquiry on Burundi and decided to extend 
its mandate in order for it to deepen its investigations. 
Regarding the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the 
Council heard the report of the High Commissioner on 
the findings of the team of international experts on the 
situation in the Kasai regions. The Council considered 
the update and the report of the Commission on Human 
Rights in South Sudan, which is mandated to monitor 
the human rights situation there.
In September, the Council considered the report of 
the High Commissioner for Human Rights containing the 
findings of a group of eminent international and regional 
experts  with  knowledge  of  human  rights  law  and  the 
context of Yemen. The report found that individuals in 
the Government of Yemen — both from among coalition 
members and the de facto authorities — had committed 
acts that may have amounted to international crimes. In 
the light of those findings, the Council decided to extend 
2/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
the mandate of the group of eminent international and 
regional experts for another year.
territory, 
including  East 
In  May,  the  Council  held  a  special  session  on  the 
deteriorating  human  rights  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
Jerusalem. 
It  decided  to  dispatch  a  commission  of  inquiry  to 
investigate all violations of international humanitarian 
law and international human rights law in the context 
of  large-scale  civilian  protests.  During  the  September 
session,  the  Council  heard  an  oral  update  from  that 
commission. In 2018, the Council extended the country-
specific special-procedure mandates regarding Belarus, 
the Central African Republic, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Eritrea,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, Mali, Myanmar, Somalia and the Sudan. 
Cooperation  and  collaboration  have  been  at  the 
forefront of our efforts in the Human Rights Council. 
While we strive to create an atmosphere  conducive to 
constructive  dialogue  and  cooperation,  we  have  also 
spent considerable time discussing the need for better 
cooperation within the United Nations system, as well 
as  how  to  bridge  the  disconnect  between  the  three 
pillars of the United Nations.
The  Council  has  therefore  continued  to  promote 
the  nexus  between  human  rights  and  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, which was given more prominence 
this year through the adoption of three resolutions. In 
that regard, the Council reaffirmed the central role of the 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 
and decided to invite the President of the Economic and 
Social Council to brief the Human Rights Council, on an 
annual basis, on discussions in the forum. The current 
President of the Economic and Social Council addressed 
the  Human  Rights  Council  during  the  September 
session.  Moreover,  the  Council  requested  the  High 
Commissioner  to  organize  two  one-day  intersessional 
meetings for dialogue and cooperation on human rights 
and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as 
well  as  to  promote  human  rights  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  through  transparent,  accountable 
and efficient public-service administrations.
In  June,  the  Council  adopted  a  resolution  on 
the  contribution  that  it  can  make  to  the  prevention 
of  human  rights  violations.  It  decided  to  convene 
two  intersessional  seminars  and  to  establish  a  group 
consisting  of  a  Chair-rapporteur  and  two  rapporteurs, 
who  will  consult  relevant  stakeholders  in  Geneva  and 
New  York  and  present  proposals  on  how  the  Council 
can  effectively  contribute  to  prevention.  Among  the 
thematic  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Council  this 
year  were  also  resolutions  on  the  joint  commitment 
to  countering  the  world  drug  problem  as  it  relates  to 
human  rights  and  on  promoting  mutually  beneficial 
cooperation in the field of human rights.
intergovernmental  working  group, 
Lastly,  following  six  years  of  negotiations  in  an 
open-ended 
in 
September the Council adopted the text of the United 
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other 
People Working in Rural Areas (A/HRC/RES/39/12).
This  year,  the  Council  held  13  panel  discussions 
on various thematic human rights issues. In particular, 
it  commemorated  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action.  We  also  marked  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide.  In  April,  the 
Council  held  a  high-level  intersessional  discussion 
celebrating the centenary of Nelson Mandela.
This  year’s  high-level  panel  discussion  on  human 
rights,  which  involved  streaming  with  the  heads  and 
senior officials of United Nations agencies, focused on 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  in  the 
light of the Universal Periodic Review. The Council was 
honoured  to  have  the  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, as a participant in that 
discussion and would be honoured to have the current 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  Council’s 
fortieth session, to be held from 25 February 2019.
I  am  also  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
we  have  continued  to  make  the  work  of  the  Council 
accessible  to  persons  with  disabilities.  During  the 
three regular sessions this year, six panels were made 
accessible  through  the  provision  of  international  sign 
language  interpretation,  real-time  captioning  and  the 
webcast of these services. I also wish to highlight that, 
early  this  year,  the  Council  launched  its  new  user-
friendly website, which offers numerous improvements 
and should ease navigation through the Council pages.
I wish to take this opportunity to emphasize that the 
special procedures of the Human Rights Council not only 
provide one of the main sources of up-to-date, reliable 
information  on  human  rights  issues  and  a  solid  basis 
for the dialogues and debates at the Council, but could 
also  significantly  contribute  to  the  early  warning  and 
prevention efforts of the United Nations. It is therefore 
18-35714
3/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
very important for all countries to cooperate and give 
access to the special-procedure mandate holders.
I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  as  of 
September, 118 member States and one Observer State 
had extended a standing invitation to thematic special 
procedures. However, I am concerned by the position of 
some States to cooperate only with a select few Council 
mechanisms,  or  not  to  cooperate  at  all.  I  therefore 
call upon all States that have not yet done so to issue 
standing  invitations  to  all  special-procedure  mandate 
holders and to cooperate with them fully.
Allow  me  now  to  turn  to  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review,  which  is  now  well  into  its  third  cycle  and 
continues to celebrate a 100 per cent participation rate. 
It enjoys strong legitimacy and ownership by Member 
States and is often cited as one of the Council’s greatest 
achievements.  It  provides  a  constructive  forum  for  a 
non-politicized, non-selective and non-confrontational 
discussion  among  peers.  The  Universal  Periodic 
Review process provides space, not only for States, but 
also for the active contribution of regional and national 
human  rights  mechanisms,  civil  society  and,  more 
recently,  parliaments.  The  reviews  in  the  third  cycle 
were  marked  by  a  high,  predominantly  ministerial, 
level of representation in the delegations of the States 
under review. The third cycle of the Universal Periodic 
Review is focused on the implementation of and follow-
up to previous recommendations received and accepted 
by each State.
This  year,  with  the  continuous  and  increasing 
support  of  States,  the  Voluntary  Technical  Assistance 
Trust  Fund  to  Support  the  Participation  of  Least 
Developed  Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing 
States  in  the  Work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
enabled  the  participation  of  25  representatives  in  its 
regular  sessions.  Among  those  Government  officials, 
10  were  from  Africa,  five  were  from  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean,  and  10  were  from  Asia  and  the 
Pacific.  Furthermore,  14  of  them  were  women,  and 
six represented small island developing States that do 
not have permanent representation in Geneva, namely, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Marshall Islands, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu.
The active participation of civil society and national 
human rights institutions is essential to the work of the 
Human  Rights  Council,  making  the  Council  unique 
among other United Nations intergovernmental organs. 
In addition to providing us with first-hand information 
from the ground, injecting unique perspectives into our 
discussions and drawing our attention to urgent human 
rights  situations,  civil-society  organizations  play  a 
fundamental  role  in  follow-up  and  capacity-building 
efforts  in  their  home  countries.  Regrettably,  however, 
in the course of this year, I have continued to receive 
allegations of intimidation, threats and reprisals against 
individuals  who  cooperate  with  the  Human  Rights 
Council. I have repeatedly appealed to the Council to 
ensure the safe participation of civil society in our work 
and, when necessary, I have followed up directly with the 
States concerned. It is critical that the Council remain 
a safe and inclusive environment where representatives 
of  civil  society  can  freely  express  their  views  on  the 
situations of human rights around the world.
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  issues  that  directly  touch 
upon the work of the General Assembly. This year the 
Human  Rights  Council  adopted  several  resolutions 
with recommendations made to the General Assembly. 
Through  its  resolution  37/29,  adopted  in  March  on 
the  human  rights  situation  in  Syria,  the  Council 
recommended  that  the  General  Assembly  submit  the 
reports  of  the  Independent  International  Commission 
of Inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic to the Security 
Council for appropriate action.
In its resolution 37/37, on ensuring accountability 
and justice for all violations of international law in the 
occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, 
also adopted in March, the Council recommended that 
the General Assembly remain informed of the matter.
Concerning  the  situation  of  the  human  rights  of 
Rohingya  Muslims  and  other  minorities  in  Myanmar, 
the  Council  encouraged  the  General  Assembly  to 
consider  taking  further  action  to  address  the  serious 
human  rights  violations  in  Myanmar,  particularly  in 
Rakhine,  Shan  and  Kachin  states.  It  also  encouraged 
the General Assembly to consider the recommendations 
of  the  report  of  the  Independent  International  Fact-
finding Mission on Myanmar and to give due regard to 
the establishment of the new independent mechanism.
At its September session, the Council recommended 
that  the  General  Assembly  adopt  the  United  Nations 
Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People 
Working in Rural Areas.
Finally, in its resolution 39/13, adopted in September 
on  human  rights  and  indigenous  people,  the  Council 
decided  to  hold  a  half-day  intersessional  interactive 
dialogue  on  ways  to  enhance  the  participation  of  the 
4/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
representatives of indigenous peoples in the Council’s 
meeting  and  invited  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  participate.  The  Council  recommended 
that the General Assembly consider the summary report 
of that interactive dialogue as well.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  share  some 
thoughts on the Council’s work. In the 12 years since 
its creation, the Human Rights Council has established 
itself  as  the  principal  intergovernmental  body  for  the 
promotion and protection of human rights. It is a well-
functioning  body.  It  provides  an  invaluable  platform 
where a wide range of views on difficult human rights 
issues  can  be  heard  and  common  solutions  to  human 
rights questions around the world can be found.
This  year,  I  have  been  privileged  to  have  a  first-
hand experience of the Human Rights Council in action, 
and sometimes I have seen the fracturing world that we 
are witnessing today playing out in our work. But what 
is more important, and for me inspiring, is that I have 
also  seen  a  number  of  delegations  coming  together  in 
the spirit of compromise and cooperation for the benefit 
of human rights. The Council has many good stories to 
tell, but as is the case with everything in this imperfect 
world,  it  also  has  its  fair  share  of  shortcomings.  The 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council’s  work 
seems to be the most pressing one and has been at the 
forefront  of  our  agenda  for  some  time  now.  Together 
with the Bureau of the Council I have initiated a process 
guided  by  our  co-facilitators,  which  through  informal 
open-ended  consultations  seeks  to  identify  long-term 
measures that could improve efficiency, strengthen the 
Council and rationalize its work. The process focuses 
on  three  aspects:  first,  reducing  the  workload  and 
the  number  of  meeting  hours  of  the  Council  during 
its  regular  sessions;  secondly,  the  rationalization  of 
resolutions and initiatives, and thirdly, the use of modern 
technology. We have held three rounds of consultations 
so  far  and  will  continue  in  November  with  a  view  to 
reaching an agreement at the organizational session on 
3 December.
This  year  as  well,  I  have  been  given  a  rare 
opportunity  to  gain  an  insider’s  view  of  the  strengths 
and  weaknesses  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and,  I 
may  say,  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  While 
realizing how imperfect the United Nations system can 
be, I have also become even more convinced that, in this 
fractured world, it represents our lifeline, protecting us 
from slipping back into the dark periods of our history.
In conclusion, let me say that I am extremely proud 
to  lead  the  Human  Rights  Council  this  year.  It  is  my 
sincere desire to see the Council successfully overcome 
its  challenges  and  come  out  even  stronger  so  that  it 
can continue improving the lives of the people around 
the world.
As my term will come to an end in December, I wish 
to assure the Assembly of my commitment to seeing a 
successful transition of the presidency and hope that the 
General Assembly will continue to support the work of 
the Human Rights Council in the years to come.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
President  Šuc  for  having  introduced  the  report  of  the 
Human Rights Council.
Mr.  Gumende  (Mozambique):  Allow  me  at  the 
outset  to  welcome  Ambassador  Vojislav  Šuc,  the 
current  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The 
Group of African States would like to thank him for his 
presentation today of the annual report of the Council 
(A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1) and to congratulate him on 
his  dedicated  and  tireless  efforts  during  the  tenure  of 
his presidency of the Council.
The  African  Group  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
Council’s mandate as a principal United Nations body 
of the first instance responsible for ensuring universal 
respect  for  the  protection  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  all,  without  distinction  of 
any kind and in a fair and equal manner, as enshrined in 
founding resolution 60/251. The African Group further 
wishes  to  reaffirm  resolution  65/281,  of  17  June  2011, 
on the review of the Council, by which the Assembly 
maintained the status of the Human Rights Council as 
a subsidiary body of the General Assembly. The Group 
recalls that the Council’s mandate should be driven by 
the principles of cooperation and genuine dialogue, free 
from politicization, selectivity and double standards
that 
Africa  remains  convinced 
the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  is  the  sole  mechanism  for  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  the  fulfilment  of  the 
human rights obligations of States and the improvement 
of the situation on the ground. In realizing that objective, 
the recommendations of the United Nations Voluntary 
Fund  for  Financial  and  Technical  Assistance  for  the 
Implementation of the Universal Periodic Review must 
be properly resourced so as to be able to assist States to 
develop national capacity and expertise.
18-35714
5/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
The  Group  reaffirms 
the  Vienna  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  adopted  at  the  third  World 
Conference  on  Human  Rights,  on  25  June  1993.  That 
outcome  fundamentally  underlines  that  all  human 
rights  are  universal,  indivisible,  interdependent  and 
interrelated,  and  that  the  right  to  development  is  a 
universal,  inalienable  right  and  an  integral  part  of 
fundamental human rights.
The African Group reaffirms resolution 60/251 in 
promoting universal respect for the protection of all human 
rights,  including  its  subsequent  institution-building 
package,  which  marked  the  foundation  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  provided  its  mandate.  The  Group 
stresses that that resolution affirmed the need to respect 
regional  particularities  and  the  various  historical, 
cultural  and  religious  backgrounds,  while  promoting 
human rights and fundamental freedoms, and therefore 
condemns the attempts of some States to impose their 
values in contradiction to the resolution.
In  that  regard,  the  Group  notes  with  concern  the 
increasingly  non-consensual  nature  by  which  Human 
Rights  Council  resolutions  are  adopted.  We  would 
point, for example, to Human Rights Council resolution
39/10, entitled  “Preventable  maternal  mortality  and 
morbidity and human rights in humanitarian settings”, 
which should have been adopted by consensus, but was 
unfortunately  politicized  by  the  inclusion  of  highly 
controversial language.
The  Group  also  deplores  the  lack  of  constructive 
engagement  by  the  global  North  in  the  work  of  the 
intergovernmental  working  group  on  transnational 
companies  and  other  business  enterprises  and  human 
rights, as the working group seeks to make progress in 
the negotiations on an internationally and legally binding 
instrument,  as  per  Human  Rights  Council  resolution 
26/9. The mandate of the Human Rights Council can be 
implemented effectively only if it is applied on the basis 
of the principles of non-politicization, non-selectivity, 
objectivity,  universality, 
international  cooperation 
and within the context of a genuine intergovernmental 
dialogue 
issues,  while 
refraining from targeting human rights situations only 
in particular countries.
to  address  human  rights 
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights 
and  the  prevention  of  human  rights  violations  can 
be  attained  through  the  building  of  the  resilience  of 
societies and through technical cooperation, solidarity 
and  mutual  respect.  We  note  the  important  role  of 
technical assistance and capacity-building in supporting 
States’ efforts to promote and protect human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms  upon  the  request  of  States  and 
based on their needs and priorities.
The process of strengthening the efficiency of the 
Human Rights Council should be guided by the principles 
of transparency, inclusiveness and non-discrimination, 
and should be in conformity with the letter and spirit of 
the  institution-building  package  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. Any agreed measures should be adopted by a 
consensual decision of the Human Rights Council. All 
issues on the agenda of that Council should be treated 
on an equal and non-discriminatory basis.
interrelatedness  and 
The  African  Group  reaffirms  the  universality, 
indivisibility, 
interdependence 
of all human rights. Civil and political rights, as well 
economic  and  social  rights,  including  the  right  to 
development, should be addressed in a fair and equitable 
manner, with the same emphasis and on an equal footing. 
The African Group reiterates its principled position on 
the notion of the justiciability of economic, social and 
cultural rights and their progressive realization, which 
is informed by a recognition that extreme poverty and 
social exclusion constitute a violation of human dignity 
and that urgent steps are necessary in order to achieve 
a better knowledge of extreme poverty and its causes, 
through the realization of the right to development. A 
troubling aspect of what is going on is the negation of 
socioeconomic and cultural rights. We do not believe in 
the hierarchy of rights that seems to underlie the human 
rights-based  approach.  We  cannot  promote  one  set  of 
rights at the exclusion of others and hope to achieve the 
inculcation of human rights consciousness everywhere 
in the world.
The  Group  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  mandate  of 
the Third Committee to examine the work of the Human 
Rights  Council  through  the  adoption  of  its  annual 
report by that Committee. We have noted the growing 
attempts to undermine that mandate by proposing that 
the report of the Human Rights Council be submitted to 
the General Assembly without the endorsement of the 
Third Committee. The Group therefore wishes to caution 
against setting such a precedent for the methods of work 
of the General Assembly and its subsidiary bodies. Any 
changes  to  the  mandate  will  require  the  endorsement 
of  the  universal  membership,  through  an  inclusive 
intergovernmental  process.  To  that  end,  the  African 
Group will continue to present its annual resolution on 
the adoption of the Human Rights Council report.
6/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
In conclusion, the African Group wishes to assure 
the Assembly of its support and cooperation in leading 
the Council towards the fulfilment of its mandate.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the observer of the European Union.
Ms.  Brito  Maneira  (European  Union):  This  year 
we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment 
of the Crime of Genocide, the twenty-fifth anniversary 
of  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
adopted  at  the  World  Conference  on  Human  Rights 
and the twentieth anniversary of the Declaration on the 
Right  and  Responsibility  of  Individuals,  Groups  and 
Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally 
Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
On  this  occasion,  the  European  Union  would  like 
to  pay  tribute  to  the  late  former  Secretary-General, 
Kofi Annan, whose vision informed the creation of the 
Human Rights Council. He said,
“The cause of human rights has entered a new 
era. For much of the past 60 years, our focus has been 
on  articulating,  codifying  and  enshrining  rights. 
That  effort  produced  a  remarkable  framework  of 
laws, standards and mechanisms — the Universal 
Declaration, the international covenants, and much 
else.  Such  work  needs  to  continue  in  some  areas. 
But the era of declaration is now giving way, as it 
should, to an era of implementation.”
Kofi Annan has left us in the year of the centenary of 
the birth of Nelson Mandela — two giants in the history 
of  humankind,  whose  legacies  should  be  celebrated 
together.  They  embodied  the  principles  of  our  shared 
humanity and the universality of the laws, values and 
principles  that  we  should  lean  on  as  the  basis  of  our 
joint efforts.
The European Union and its member States would 
like to warmly thank the President of the Human Rights 
Council,  Ambassador  Vojislav  Šuc,  for  presenting  the 
Council’s  annual  report  (A/73/53  and  A/73/53/Add.1) 
and for his able stewardship of the work of the Council 
in 2018, including his efforts to improve its efficiency. 
The  European  Union  has  strongly  supported  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  its  independence  since  its 
establishment and continues to do so.
Twelve  years  have  passed  since  the  General 
Assembly established the Human Rights Council, and 
much  has  been  achieved.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
is adjusting to new realities and delivering on various 
parts of its mandate. The new High Commissioner for 
Human Rights delivered her first statement to the Human 
Rights Council in September, reminding us all that the 
promotion of human rights is a powerful medicine that 
heals  wounds  and  develops  resilience.  The  EU  stands 
ready to cooperate closely with her and the Office, as 
we cooperated with her predecessors.
On  12  October,  the  General  Assembly  elected  18 
new  members  of  the  Council.  Serving  as  a  Council 
member  entails  important  responsibilities.  Resolution 
60/251  provides  that  members  elected  to  the  Council 
shall uphold the highest standards in the promotion and 
protection  of  human  rights  and  shall  fully  cooperate 
with  the  Council.  While  we  congratulate  the  new 
members, we also remind them to give due importance 
to  the  human  rights  situation  in  their  own  countries 
and to cooperate with the Council’s mechanisms in the 
promotion  and  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  all, 
without discrimination of any kind.
No State has a perfect human rights record, but we 
particularly  expect  from  the  newly  elected  members 
that they will engage in the work of the Human Rights 
Council  in  a  spirit  of  self-reflection  with  a  view  to 
improving  their  own  human  rights  situation  and  to 
addressing all human rights concerns that come before 
the Council on their merits. We also strongly encourage 
all  States  and  other  stakeholders  to  cooperate  with 
the  special  procedures  as  a  means  to  enhance  the 
protection and promotion of human rights. We take this 
opportunity to call on all States that have not done so to 
extend a standing invitation to all special procedures.
In 2018, under the able leadership of Ambassador 
Šuc  and  thanks  to  the  work  of  the  co-facilitators,  the 
Human Rights Council has recommitted to improving 
its  efficiency.  That  ongoing  process  has  already 
produced  positive  results, 
including  a  significant 
streamlining of the number of resolutions presented and 
the moving of some thematic resolutions to a biennial 
or triennial basis. That allows for stronger engagement 
from all stakeholders, creates more space for dialogue 
and reinforces ownership.
The  EU  is  firmly  committed  to  the  process  of 
strengthening the Council’s efficiency and will continue 
to engage constructively in an inclusive cross-regional 
process  of  reflection,  dialogue  and  review  in  Geneva 
and in close partnership with all relevant stakeholders, 
18-35714
7/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
including  civil  society,  and  focusing  on  the  Council’s 
working methods, efficiency, effectiveness and impact. 
For  the  EU,  it  is  crucial  to  further  improve  synergies 
between  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Third 
Committee,  while  at  the  same  time  ensuring  that 
the  mandate,  independence  and  work  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  is  respected.  Moreover,  we  welcome 
consistency  between  the  work  of  the  Council,  the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions  and  the  Fifth  Committee,  with  a  view  to 
ensuring  that  the  activities  mandated  by  the  Human 
Rights  Council  are  appropriately  funded  and  can  be 
duly implemented.
The  Council’s  mandate  to  contribute  through 
dialogue  and  cooperation  to  the  prevention  of  human 
rights violations and abuses and to respond promptly to 
human rights emergencies must be fully operationalized 
in  order  to  translate  early  warning  into  early  action. 
The Council’s existing mechanisms can be better used 
to  play  that  stronger  preventive  role,  including  by 
transferring reports and other materials to the Security 
Council  when  relevant.  The  EU  looks  forward  to 
continuing to contribute to the full implementation of 
the Human Rights Council’s wide mandate, given it by 
the General Assembly in its resolution 60/251, namely, 
through the new process established by Human Rights 
Council resolution 38/18 to assess how the Council can 
better implement its prevention mandate.
During  the  September  session  of  the  Council, 
the  EU  delivered  a  statement  supported  by  Japan, 
Norway,  Turkey,  Australia,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
Russia,  Ukraine,  Montenegro,  Georgia,  Albania, 
Iceland, Canada, New Zealand, Singapore, Ghana and 
Armenia, recalling the rules and established practices 
of  intergovernmental  working  groups  and,  inter  alia, 
the  responsibility  of  those  who  are  leading  a  process 
to return to the Council for a renewal of its programme 
of  work,  in  order  to  ensure  that  its  endeavours  and 
resources reflect, and are accountable to, the democratic 
will of the members of the Council.
The EU welcomes the strong condemnation by the 
Human  Rights  Council  of  discrimination  and  gender-
based violence against women and girls in all its forms, 
online  and  offline,  in  both  public  and  private  spaces. 
We strongly support the call made to States to develop 
inclusive gender-responsive policies and regulations, as 
well as to repeal all laws and policies that exclusively 
or  disproportionately  criminalize  women’s  and  girls’ 
actions  or  behaviours  and  that  discriminate  against 
them,  based  on  any  grounds, 
including  custom, 
tradition or cultural or religious interpretation contrary 
to  the  international  obligation  to  eliminate  all  forms 
of  violence  and  discrimination  against  women  and 
girls.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  decisions  calling  for 
the mainstreaming of women’s and girls’ rights into all 
humanitarian  action,  as  well  as  efforts  to  implement 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 
Sustainable Development Goals, and we encourage all 
development  and  humanitarian  actors  to  ensure  that 
their operations and actions adhere to the principles of 
equality  and  non-discrimination  and  seek  to  promote 
women’s and girls’ full enjoyment of all human rights 
across the board.
Civil  society  and  human  rights  defenders  play 
a  crucial  and  instrumental  role  in  the  work  of  the 
Council  and  its  mechanisms.  Targeting  individuals  or 
groups that engage with United Nations human rights 
mechanisms  is  unacceptable  and  runs  contrary  to  the 
promotion,  protection  and  fulfilment  of  human  rights. 
The  European  Union  strongly  condemns  any  act  of 
violence,  harassment,  intimidation,  reprisal  or  threat 
thereof. The ability of individuals and groups to raise 
concerns  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights and the Human Rights 
Council’s  special  procedures  and  other  mechanisms 
without fear of reprisals is vital for the work of those 
mechanisms and their capacity to fulfil their mandates. 
The issue of reprisals needs a consistent approach at the 
international and regional levels. All States represented 
in this Hall have an obligation to do all in their power 
to  prevent  and  eliminate  such  acts.  Civil  society  and 
its representatives are valuable partners for States and 
human  right  mechanisms  and  for  the  enhancement  of 
the universal protection and promotion of human rights.
We  underline  the  vital  importance  of  countering 
intimidation  and  reprisals  against  those  seeking  to 
cooperate with the United Nations and its mechanisms 
and the role that we must all play in ensuring a robust 
response.  We  support  the  mandate  and  work  of  the 
Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights in that 
respect and welcome the holding of the first interactive 
dialogue  on  that  matter  within  the  Council  and  the 
sustained efforts that are being made on the issue.
The  EU  welcomes  the  central  role  played  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  addressing  human  rights 
situations  throughout  the  world.  In  September,  the 
Independent  International  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
Myanmar  presented  its  final  report  (A/HRC/39/64)  to 
8/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
the Council. The report provides a harrowing account 
of the human rights situation in Myanmar, pointing to 
the possible commission of genocide in Rakhine state 
and  containing  findings  that  crimes  against  humanity 
have  been  committed  in  Kachin,  Rakhine  and  Shan 
states by the military and security forces. The findings 
also point to the commission by ethnically based armed 
organizations of human rights abuses and violations of 
international humanitarian law.
The  EU  therefore  welcomes  the  fact  that  the 
Human  Rights  Council  acted  on  its  responsibility  to 
adequately  address  those  extremely  grave  findings 
and  to  pursue  accountability  through  its  decision  to 
establish a mechanism to collect, consolidate, preserve 
and analyse evidence of the most serious international 
crimes  and  violations  of  international  law  and  to 
facilitate  fair  and  independent  criminal  proceedings 
in  national,  regional  or  international  courts.  The  EU 
is pleased that the mechanism was established through 
a  joint  resolution  (Human  Rights  Council  resolution 
34/22)  presented  —  for  the  first  time  in  the  Council’s 
history — on behalf of the EU and the Organization of 
Islamic Cooperation (OIC). We are grateful for the close 
and  very  constructive  cooperation  that  we  have  had 
with the OIC throughout that process. That is testament 
to  the  important  results  that  the  Council  can  achieve 
when we work together across different regional groups 
on situations where we share a common concern.
The  EU  welcomes  the  renewal  of  the  mandate  of 
the  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Burundi  and  calls  on 
the Government of Burundi to cooperate fully with the 
Commission, as well as with other international human 
rights mechanisms. As stated in the Council’s founding 
resolution,  members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
shall  uphold  the  highest  standards  in  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights, both domestically and 
internationally.  We  reiterate  our  urgent  call  on  the 
Government of Burundi to do so, and we condemn all 
threats against the Commission’s members, as well as 
reprisals against those who cooperate with it.
The severe consequences of the crisis in Syria and 
the violations committed by all parties, particularly the 
Syrian regime and its allies, cannot be ignored by any 
State.  Any  violations  of  international  law,  including 
international humanitarian law and international human 
rights law, some of which may constitute war crimes or 
crimes against humanity, must be brought to justice. In 
that context, the Council’s ongoing response to the crisis 
remains critically important, as demonstrated by efforts 
to foster accountability and fight against impunity.
The EU welcomes the renewal of the mandate of the 
eminent  international  and  regional  experts  to  monitor 
and report on the human rights situation in Yemen and to 
continue to carry out the comprehensive examination of 
all alleged violations and abuses of international human 
rights  law  and  other  appropriate  and  applicable  fields 
of international law committed by all parties. We call 
on all parties to corporate fully with the investigative 
mechanism for Yemen.
During the past year, the Human Rights Council has 
also demonstrated its commitment to provide technical 
assistance and capacity-building for promoting human 
rights to the Governments of the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, Libya, Mali, the Sudan, Somalia and the 
Central African Republic. We also welcome the adoption 
of a resolution initiated by a group of countries in the 
region requesting the Office of the High Commissioner 
for Human Rights to monitor the human rights situation 
in Venezuela. We furthermore welcome the continued 
support rendered to Georgia and Ukraine.
The  twenty-eighth  special  session  of  the  Council 
also  clearly  indicated  that  continued  attention  should 
be  paid  to  the  situation  of  concern  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  We 
trust that the Council will continue to closely monitor 
situations  where  technical  assistance  and  capacity-
building can make a difference and to take action when 
necessary.  The  EU  calls  for  unfettered  access  to  all 
territories to be granted to international human rights 
monitoring mechanisms.
We welcome the fact that the human rights situation 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo will remain 
on  the  Council’s  agenda,  which  will  ensure  close 
monitoring  before,  during  and  after  the  elections.  We 
also  welcome  the  fact  that  the  provision  of  technical 
assistance  and  capacity-building  to  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo will continue through continued 
technical  support  to  national  investigations  and  the 
special  mechanism  for  accountability  and  justice  for 
crimes  committed  in  the  Kasai  region.  We  wish  to 
stress  that  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
are  key  preconditions  for  ensuring  credible,  peaceful, 
require 
transparent  and 
the 
including 
confidence-building measures.
inclusive  elections  and 
implementation  of 
important  steps, 
18-35714
9/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
Being a member of the Council increases a country’s 
responsibility  to  cooperate  with  its  mechanisms  and 
to  uphold  the  highest  standards  in  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights.  The  EU  therefore 
particularly regrets that any Member State, in particular 
one  that  is  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
should  try  to  prevent  a  Council-mandated  briefing  by 
a  commission  of  inquiry,  much  less  make  threats  or 
inflammatory statements during such a briefing. As the 
High  Commissioner  has  said,  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations should show respect to the institutions 
and the various bodies, laws and mechanisms that the 
Organization has established.
We  also  welcome  the  extension  of  the  country-
specific  mandates  of  the  Special  Rapporteurs  on 
the  human  rights  situations  in  Myanmar,  Iran,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Eritrea  and 
Belarus,  and  the  extension  of  the  mandate  of  the 
Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan. Through 
joint  statements,  the  Council  has  also  addressed  the 
situations  in  Cambodia,  the  Philippines,  Nicaragua 
and Maldives.
Human  Rights  Council  mechanisms,  including 
the  system  of  special  procedures,  the  establishment 
of  accountability  mechanisms  and 
the  Universal 
Periodic  Review,  have  contributed  positively  to  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  worldwide. 
Through  its  delivery  on  its  technical-assistance  and 
capacity-building  mandates,  the  Council  has  helped 
countries  deal  with  human  rights  crises  and  build 
human  rights  protections  policies  and  fulfil  their 
international obligations.
The  mechanisms  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
are strong medicine that can heal wounds and develop 
resilience. The European Union will continue to do its 
part  in  engaging  with  the  mechanisms  of  the  Council 
and  all  stakeholders  working  to  promote  and  protect 
human rights, including by presenting draft resolutions 
on  the  rights  of  the  child,  together  with  the  Group  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  on  the 
freedom  of  religion  and  belief,  as  well  as  on  various 
country situations.
Mr.  Opimah  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
Human  Rights  Council  was  originally  envisaged  as  a 
body that would play an important role in the protection 
and promotion of human rights, based on the principles 
of  constructive  cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue.  If 
that  were  the  role  actually  played  by  the  Council,  we 
would welcome that role. However, the reality is such 
that  we  cannot  do  so.  The  proceedings  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  remain  excessively  politicized  and 
bogged  down  by  initiatives  that  are  not  supported  by 
consensus. That situation cannot but undermine trust in 
the Council, its resolutions and their objectivity.
In the light of that situation, Belarus calls for the 
greater  development  of  the  work  of  the  cooperation 
mechanisms in the Council and other forms of dialogue, 
such as the Universal Periodic Review (UPR). The UPR 
procedure  has  secured  overall  support  through  clear, 
explicit  criteria  that  apply  uniformly  to  all  States.  At 
the  same  time,  country-specific  initiatives,  which 
are  rubber-stamped  by  the  Council,  are  based  on  the 
subjective  views  and  assessments  of  certain  States 
or  groups  of  States.  The  operations  of  the  numerous 
special  procedures  established  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council must also be based on cooperation and dialogue 
with States.
Unfortunately,  certain  special  procedures  are 
biased in their work and subject to external influence. 
We believe that it is of critical importance to reduce the 
level of confrontation when a country is the subject of 
a country-specific consideration. We also believe that it 
is important to put an end to the practice of including 
country-specific issues for consideration on the thematic 
agenda of the Human Rights Council. It is not acceptable 
that  reports  on  country-specific  situations  should  be 
drafted  by  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  without  a  mandate  based  on  relevant 
Council resolutions. The Council report before us today 
(A/73/53 and A/73/53 Add.1) fully reflects the problems 
that I have mentioned. Since the report lists resolutions 
that are not acceptable to Belarus, our delegation cannot 
support that document.
Mr.  Aldahhak  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): The delegation of my country, the Syrian Arab 
Republic, reiterates its steadfast position, namely, that 
we reject the politicization of human rights issues and 
mechanisms  and  their  use  as  a  political  tool  to  serve 
the  interests  of  certain  influential  countries  in  this 
Organization.  They  target  Member  States,  including 
my  country,  for  reasons  that  have  nothing  to  do  with 
international law, the Charter of the United Nations or 
human rights instruments and values.
My  delegation  strongly  rejects  any  efforts  to  deal 
with  human  rights  issues  using  double  standards  and 
shameful  selectivity  that  focuses  on  certain  countries 
10/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
while  ignoring  the  wars  of  aggression,  war  crimes, 
support for terrorism and serious violations of human 
rights  committed  by  certain  Governments  of  States 
Members of the Organization. They do so individually at 
times or in the context of internationally illegal alliances 
created outside the United Nations. Among such illegal 
alliances is the illegal alliance led by the United States 
of  America,  which  has  been  committing  crimes,  one 
after  the  other,  against  civilians  in  my  country  and 
destroying civilian infrastructure, including hospitals, 
schools, dams and bridges without any moral deterrent 
or fear of being called to account in any way.
Human rights issues are holistic. If we wish to deal 
with human rights, we must do so with professionalism, 
credibility,  impartiality  and  avoid  shameful  practices 
such  as 
fabrication,  antagonism,  confrontation, 
accusations  and  attempts  to  isolate  others.  In  that 
regard, the delegation of my country strongly condemns 
the  pressures  brought  to  bear  by  certain  well-known 
Governments on human rights mechanisms, including 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  by  withdrawing  from 
them  or  threatening  to  do  so  or  exerting  economic 
and  financial  pressures  by  cutting  off  funding,  with  a 
view  to  covering  up  the  crimes  they  commit  together 
with  their  allies.  We  also  condemn  the  attempt  to 
interfere  with  agenda  items  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  in  a  manner  that  serves  the  purposes  of  the 
Israeli occupation of the Arab occupied territories. My 
delegation  also  rejects,  attempts  to  blur  the  boundary 
between the mandates of the Security Council and the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  order  to  serve  the  special 
agendas  of  certain  Western  States  that  are  permanent 
members of the Security Council.
law  and  human  rights 
My  delegation  stresses  that  the  crimes  and  the 
serious  violations  of  international  law,  international 
humanitarian 
instruments 
that  are  being  committed  by  the  Israeli  occupation 
authorities against the residents of the occupied Syrian 
Golan  and  other  Arab  occupied  territories  must  come 
to  an  end.  We  also  call  for  an  immediate  end  to  the 
crimes  of  the  illegal  international  coalition  operating 
in my country and its support for terrorism. The illegal 
coalition  has  completely  destroyed  the  city  of  Raqqa, 
using  prohibited  weapons  against  civilians,  including 
white  phosphorus.  Recently,  we  found  mass  graves 
containing the bodies and remains of more than 4,000 
Syrians, most of them children and women, who died 
because  of  the  acts  of  aggression  perpetrated  by  that 
illegal coalition. Of course, those crimes and the crimes 
committed  by  terrorist  organizations,  along  with  the 
practices  of  States  supporting  terrorism,  do  not  find 
their way into the reports of Human Rights Council or 
the United Nations, given the politicization, selectivity 
and double standards of the human rights agenda.
Despite  the  hundreds  of  letters  that  we  have  sent 
and the claims made by many representatives of States 
Members  of  the  Organization  that  they  are  keen  to 
protect human rights and the rule of law, this situation 
requires immediate action under the auspices of United 
Nations, including serious and firm steps to effectively 
promote  the  equal  treatment  of  States,  international 
law and the Charter. The seventieth anniversary of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides a good 
opportunity to review and reform the situation.
We  listened  to  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
European Union, which referred to what it termed the 
human  rights  situation  in  my  country  Syria.  In  that 
respect, the delegation of my country reiterates its call 
on European countries to raise their voice against the 
Governments  that  support  terrorism.  They  should  not 
just talk about those issues behind closed doors. That 
is shameful. People pay in blood for the price of their 
silence. Firm actions should be taken to end terrorism.
We also call for the lifting of the unilateral economic 
coercive sanctions imposed on Syrians, which represent 
a violation of their rights and a collective punishment 
imposed  by  Europe  and  others,  which  contravenes 
the  principles  of  international  law,  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  principles  of  justice.  We  call 
on  European  countries  that  participate  in  the  illegal 
coalition  to  immediately  withdraw  from  it  and  to 
distance themselves from the crimes committed by that 
coalition and its brutal violations of human rights and 
Syrian civilians.
The discourse of racism, hate and extremism must 
be  brought  to  an  end,  as  should  the  violent  practices 
committed  against  refugees  and  migrants,  including 
Syrians. There should be no politicization of humanitarian 
and  development  work,  which  should  not  be  linked 
with  politicized  conditions  that  totally  contravene  the 
principles of humanitarian and development work. The 
efforts  of  the  Syrian  Government  must  be  supported 
in order to help the refugees and migrants attain their 
goal of returning to their homeland Syria in a safe and 
dignified manner.
Mrs. Elmarmuri (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  extend  its  thanks 
18-35714
11/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
to  Mr.  Vojislav  Šuc,  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  for  the  report  presented  to  the  Assembly 
(A/73/53  and  A/73/53/Add.1),  of  which  we  have  taken 
note. My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Mozambique on behalf of 
the African Group.
While we stress the importance of solidifying and 
promoting human rights, we cannot but feel concern at 
the attempts of some to politicize those values, exploit 
them  for  political  ends  and  impose  their  cultures  on 
other societies. It is necessary to respect the cultural and 
social diversity existing among peoples. In that respect, 
my  country  reaffirms  its  sovereign  right  to  reject  or 
hold  reservations  with  respect  to  any  international 
instrument that includes language that goes against our 
applicable  national  law.  We  also  reject  any  attempt  to 
include  in  resolutions  any  concepts  that  do  not  enjoy 
consensus among all Member States or do not figure in 
the relevant international conventions.
When we address human rights concepts, we must 
address  illegal  migration  and  the  exploitation  and 
rights  violations  faced  by  illegal  migrants.  That  issue 
has  been  subject  to  the  attention  of  numerous  States, 
international  and  legal  organizations.  Libya  is  itself  a 
victim  as  a  transit  country  for  illegal  migration.  We 
share  the  concerns  regarding  that  issue  and  seek  to 
address  the  influx  of  illegal  migrants  and  to  prevent 
smuggler groups from exploiting them, while limiting 
the  risks  that  such  people  face  when  crossing  the 
Sahara, entering Libya and departing by sea for Europe.
My  country  is  among  those  most  affected  by 
illegal  migration,  especially  during  this  transitional 
period  characterized  by  weak  State  institutions  and 
falling  export  revenues,  which  have  negative  effects 
on  our  national  economy  and  the  State’s  ability  to 
tackle  the  challenges  of  illegal  migration,  as  does 
another issue related to that crisis, namely, the need to 
combat terrorism.
My country will spare no effort to cooperate with 
the  relevant  international  and  regional  organizations, 
despite  all  of  the  security,  financial  and  political 
challenges that we are facing. I would like to mention, 
for  example,  the  ongoing  cooperation  between  Libya 
and  the  International  Organization  for  Migration,  and 
the  European  Union’s  civilian  Border  Management 
Assistance  Mission.  This  year,  Libya  has  signed 
two  cooperation  agreements  with  our  neighbouring 
countries,  the  Sudan,  Chad  and  the  Niger,  aimed 
at  controlling  the  borders  and  putting  an  end  to  the 
activities of smuggling groups and terrorist gangs.
At the national level, we have developed a strategy 
aimed  at  dealing  with  the  negative  effects  of  illegal 
migration  and  at  improving  the  situation  of  migrants. 
Out of the 53 accommodation centres, 18 are now closed. 
We also promote programmes for the voluntary return 
of refugees to their countries or for their resettlement in 
a third country.
With regard to saving migrants from drowning in 
the Mediterranean Sea off the Libyan coast, the Libyan 
Coast Guard has been working very hard to deal with 
the situation, including by initiating search and rescue 
operations, despite its limited capacity. We have been 
sending  out  patrols  all  day  long  and  have  set  up  10 
centres  along  the  Libyan  coast  that  receive  migrants 
who have been rescued at sea. In fact, we have saved 
thousands of migrants, including women and children.
Despite all my country’s efforts, Libya still suffers 
from  the  negative  consequences  of  illegal  migration, 
which  has  affected  security  and  the  economy.  Libya 
is  experiencing  extremely  difficult  circumstances, 
exacerbated by the influx of migrants, which burdens the 
State. As a transit country for illegal migration, Libya 
is  suffering  owing  to  the  reluctance  of  the  countries 
of  origin  to  control  their  borders,  and  because  the 
countries of destination have been slow to find radical 
and effective solutions to address the phenomenon.
The  radical  solution  to  illegal  migration  is  to 
address  the  reasons  that  cause  people  to  leave  their 
countries,  and  not  to  focus  solely  on  the  security 
dimension.  That  is  a  challenge  that  requires  a  firm 
collective    international  stance  aimed  at  helping  poor 
countries that export migration implement development 
programmes aimed at improving their living conditions 
by  supporting  small  and  medium-sized  businesses 
and  by  creating  employment  opportunities  in  those 
countries.  We  welcome  the  global  compact  for  safe, 
orderly  and  regular  migration,  which  will  be  adopted 
by  the  intergovernmental  conference  in  Marrakech  in 
the Kingdom of Morocco in December. While we agree 
on the urgent need to protect the rights of migrants as 
much as possible, my country believes that the global 
compact  should  address  the  issue  of  migration  in 
greater depth. We call on the international community, 
in particular the countries of origin and destination, to 
work together and shoulder their responsibilities in that 
regard and not to lay the responsibility on the shoulders 
12/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
of transit countries such as Libya, which is a victim, not 
the cause of the problem.
My  country  emphasizes  that  the  violations  that 
accompany 
the  conflict  and  post-conflict  phases, 
which are mentioned in the report, are not systematic 
violations  but  are  perpetrated  against  illegal  migrants 
and citizens by transnational criminal gangs that take 
advantage  of  the  difficult  transition  phase  that  we  in 
Libya  are  now  in.  They  cannot  be  attributed  to  my 
Government, which strives to overcome the violations 
and punish the perpetrators, allowing no impunity. In 
that regard, the Libyan authorities call for international 
assistance aimed at overcoming the security crisis in our 
country by providing the necessary support to our law-
enforcement authorities. In that way, they will be able 
to perform their role and promote security and stability, 
while  controlling  the  factors  and  circumstances  that 
lead to  violations of international humanitarian law.
In conclusion, my country stresses the importance 
of  respecting,  protecting  and  promoting  the  human 
rights enshrined in all of the international instruments 
to which we are a party. We underscore that the Libyan 
Government is keen to support comprehensive national 
reconciliation efforts, while working to achieve security 
and stability throughout Libya.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  We  thank  the 
President of the Human Rights Council for presenting 
the comprehensive and informative report on the work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/73/53  and  A/73/53/
Add.1).
The Human Rights Council has once again lived up 
to  its  role  as  the  central  and  permanent  human  rights 
body  of  the  United  Nations.  Its  developing  body  of 
special  procedures  and  mechanisms  represent  major 
achievements,  as  does  the  Universal  Periodic  Review, 
whose integrity and universal nature must be preserved. 
As a strong supporter of the Human Rights Council, we 
also see significant room for improvement in a number 
of  areas.  As  pointed  out  by  other  speakers,  not  all 
provisions of the Council’s founding resolution 60/251 
have  been  implemented  in  practice.  As  paragraph 
9  of 
the  resolution  stipulates,  Council  members 
“shall  uphold  the  highest  standards  in  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights”.  That  is  a  political 
commitment that is binding on the General Assembly 
membership. States must live up to that responsibility 
when  electing  members  to  the  Council.  We  call  on 
all  States  to  publicly  renew  that  commitment  and  to 
adapt  their  election  practices  accordingly.  In  order  to 
help strengthen the Council’s mission and daily work, 
States  that  do  not  fulfil  such  criteria  should  not  be 
elected to the Council. Liechtenstein has followed that 
practice consistently, even in situations where regional 
groups present clean slates for elections. The consistent 
implementation of such a policy by others would help to 
protect  the  Council  from  political  attack  and  enhance 
its effectiveness in its daily work.
Liechtenstein  supports  calls  for  greater  efficiency 
and  effectiveness  in  the  work  of  the  Council  and  for 
efforts  to  review  its  working  methods  and  priority-
setting.  Going  forward,  the  Council  should  build  on 
the experience and best practices of the entire United 
Nations system. It should draw on resolution 60/251 and 
resolution 65/281, on the review of the Human Rights 
Council.  The  understandings  reached  by  the  broadest 
possible  consensus  among  Member  States  in  those 
processes must be preserved, in particular in the area of 
the institutional relationship with the Assembly.
Our  long-standing  concerns  about  the  situation 
in  Myanmar  have  found  their  tragic  and  full-scale 
expression in the report of the Independent International 
Fact-Finding Mission established by the Human Rights 
Council (A/HRC/39/64). Consistent patterns of serious 
human rights violations and abuses, in addition to serious 
violations of international humanitarian law, rape and 
other forms of sexual violence, were perpetrated on a 
massive scale and as the result of what appears to be a 
policy by the authorities. In the light of the pervasive 
culture  of  impunity  at  the  national  level,  the  Mission 
finds  that  the  impetus  for  accountability  must  come 
from the international community. It recommends that 
those responsible should be investigated and prosecuted 
for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
We  commend  the  clear  stance  of  the  Fact-Finding 
Mission  that  such  crimes  should  be  referred  to  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  as  the  permanent 
court dedicated to dealing with the most serious crimes 
under international law.
We  welcome  the  decision  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority, 
to  establish  an  independent  mechanism  to  collect, 
consolidate,  preserve  and  analyse  evidence  of  the 
most  serious  international  crimes  and  violations  of 
international  law  committed  in  Myanmar  since  2011, 
and  to  prepare  a  dossier  in  order  to  facilitate  and 
expedite  criminal  proceedings.  We  applaud  the  fact 
that the Council has adopted that recent and innovative 
18-35714
13/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
format so as to advance justice, and we encourage close 
cooperation and the use of best practices in setting up 
the mechanism. In addition, we continue to believe that 
the  Security  Council  should  refer  the  situation  to  the 
ICC. However, in the absence of such a referral, which 
is, unfortunately, likely to be the case, States have other 
options  available  to  them.  The  finding  of  the  Court’s 
Pre-Trial  Chamber  that  the  Prosecutor  can  exercise 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  the  forced  deportation 
of the Rohingya to Bangladesh opens a direct path to 
justice through a referral by States parties to the Rome 
Statute under article 14. We also welcome that fact that 
the Security Council has been briefed on the findings of 
the Fact-Finding Mission — a first small step in reversing 
the denial of the reality in the Security Council.
Human  rights  defenders  and  civil  society  play 
an  important  and  legitimate  role  in  promoting  and 
advocating  the  realization  of  all  human  rights  at  the 
local, national, regional and international levels. They 
engage with Governments and contribute to efforts to 
implement the obligations and commitments of States. 
We  are  glad  that  the  Liechtenstein  National  Human 
Rights  Institution,  established  in  accordance  with 
the  Paris  Principles  relating  to  the  status  of  national 
human rights institutions, is now fully functional and 
contributes to awareness-raising, public discourse and 
the respect of human rights.
We  are  deeply  concerned  about  the  considerable 
increase in the number of threats, acts of intimidation 
and  harassment  and  attacks  against 
individuals, 
groups and associations that contribute to the effective 
elimination  of  all  violations  of  the  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  of  peoples  and  individuals. 
We  strongly  condemn  reprisals  against  human  rights 
defenders  in  retaliation  for  their  engagement  with 
international  and  regional  human  rights  systems,  and 
we are deeply concerned about the increasing number 
of assaults against journalists, including their arbitrary 
imprisonment  and  killing.  Promoting  the  safety  of 
journalists  and  combating  impunity  for  those  who 
attack  them  must  be  a  priority  for  each  and  every 
Member State and a central element of the work of the 
United Nations.
Ms. Alsabah  (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like at the outset to congratulate Ms. Michelle Bachelet 
on her appointment as High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, wishing her every success. We also pay tribute 
to her predecessor, Prince Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, for 
his work to promote human rights during his mandate.
Given  the  egregious  violations  of  human  rights 
resulting from the many bloody conflicts and disputes 
that  we  are  witnessing  around  the  world,  item  69  of 
the  agenda  is  a  priority  that  requires  close  follow-up, 
in particular as we are commemorating the seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights this year.
The  State  of  Kuwait  thanks  the  Human  Rights 
Council for its important report (A/73/53 and A/73/53/
Add.1).  We  encourage  constructive  partnership  and 
cooperation with a view to strengthening the promotion 
and maintenance of human rights and ensuring respect 
for  the  choice  of  the  principles  and  values  that  are  in 
harmony with specific societies. At the same time, we 
reject any attempt to impose any cultures or principles 
on peoples under the pretext of human rights, and we 
call  for  the  equality  of  all  rights:  political,  economic, 
social,  cultural  and  development-related.  My  country 
recognizes  the  challenges  and  struggles  facing  the 
international community with regard to the promotion 
and protection of human rights in accordance with all 
relevant  international  instruments  and  charters.  We 
also believe in the right of each person to development, 
employment, 
food,  medical  care,  education  and 
gender equality, none of which will ever be realized in 
isolation  from  the  achievement  of  international  peace 
and security.
As  part  of  its  commitment  to  human  rights,  the 
State  of  Kuwait  has  created  several  relevant  national 
institutions  and  mechanisms,  including  the  National 
Anti-Corruption  Authority,  the  Women’s  Commission 
of  the  Council  of  Ministers,  the  Human  Rights 
Committee  of  the  National  Assembly,  the  National 
Bureau  for  Human  Rights,  and  the  General  Authority 
for  Disability  Affairs,  among  others.  I  should  also 
mention  that  the  Kuwaiti  Constitution  provides  for 
respect  for  the  dignity  and  rights  of  people.  In  that 
same vein, we have endorsed a number of International 
Labour Organization conventions.
The  State  of  Kuwait  strongly  condemns  all 
violations  and  abuses  of  human  rights,  as  well  as  all 
violations of international law by all parties to conflicts 
throughout the world. We also strongly condemn attacks 
that  deliberately  target  civilians  or  promote  child 
recruitment,  sexual  and  ethnic  violence,  murder  and 
mutilation.  We  also  condemn  the  targeting  of  houses, 
schools, hospitals, places of worship and infrastructure 
by any party to a conflict.
14/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
The  State  of  Kuwait  stresses  that  all  human 
rights  are  universal,  indivisible  and  interrelated.  That 
is  why  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  promotion 
of 
international  cooperation  aimed  at  preventing 
organized acts of the looting and smuggling of cultural 
property  and  the  illicit  trafficking  thereof.  Given  the 
foregoing,  my  country  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of 
the  Foundation  of  the  International  Alliance  for  the 
Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas. We commend 
the Security Council resolution 2347 (2017) regarding 
the preservation of cultural heritage in areas of armed 
conflict. We also pay tribute to the role played by the 
Human Rights Council in its endeavours to protect and 
preserve cultural heritage.
The State of Kuwait is committed to implementing 
the  recommendations  emanating  from  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  mechanism,  and  is  determined  to 
promote  cooperation  with  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and  its  mechanisms.  In  that  regard,  we  will  receive 
the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  rights  of  persons  with 
disabilities by the end of November.
The State of Kuwait pays tribute to the Independent 
International  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  Myanmar 
for  its  report  (A/HRC/39/64)  and  findings  regarding 
the  violations  committed  there  and  commends  the 
Mission’s  briefing  to  the  Security  Council  last  week 
(see S/PV.8381). That is an important step in the right 
direction for accountability. We expect the Council to 
uphold its mandate in that regard.
My country strongly condemns the gross violations 
committed  by  the  Israeli  Defense  Forces  against  the 
human rights of the Palestinian people, Israel’s defiance 
of  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  its 
continued  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territories. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  Human  Rights  Council 
resolution  S-28/1,  condemning  violations  committed 
by  Israel  against  international  law  in  the  context  of 
large-scale civilian protests in the occupied Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  the  Council’s 
call for an international independent investigation.
In  conclusion,  my  country  is  currently  preparing 
our  third  national  report  within  the  framework  of 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism  in  2019. 
We  attach  special  importance  to  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights,  and  we  urge  everyone 
to  respect  the  principles  contained  in  the  relevant 
international  instruments  and  charters.  We  call  upon 
the international community to join efforts to hold more 
constructive discussions and promote cooperation with 
one another.
Mr.  Skoknic  Tapia  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  my  delegation  thanks  the  President  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  Mr.  Vojislav  Šuc,  for  the 
presentation  of  the  Council’s  report  (A/73/53  and 
A/73/53/Add.1), which gives us an accurate description 
of the vital work of the Council aimed at promoting and 
protecting human rights around the world.
Chile  recognizes  the  Human  Rights  Council  as 
the  main  body  within  the  United  Nations  system  for 
cooperation, dialogue and the building of consensus on 
the fundamental pillar that human rights represents. We 
know that consensus on important and sensitive issues 
is not easy to attain, even more so when multiple actors 
meet within that body — from States to civil society and 
from international organizations to individuals — in the 
quest for common ground on which to build agreements 
that allow for the protection of human beings and their 
rights around the world. That multiplicity, in any event, 
is also one of the Council’s greatest strengths.
Since  its  inception  in  2006,  the  Human  Rights 
Council has worked to promote and protect the rights 
of people throughout the world and sought to respond 
to  and  alleviate  the  needs  of  the  victims  of  rights 
violations and abuses. That work must be strengthened 
and promoted. Today more than ever, the work of the 
Council — including its decisions, special procedures 
and investigative mechanisms — must be respected by 
States and protected by the international community, in 
accordance with our global goals for 2030. Furthermore, 
those States whose human rights situations receive the 
attention  of  the  Council  and  its  procedures  must  be 
respectful of the Council’s work and fully facilitate the 
implementation of the decisions of that body.
We  note  with  disappointment  the  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  crises  around  the  world,  which  are 
reflected  in  the  hundreds  of  resolutions,  decisions 
and  special  procedures  of  the  Council  at  this  year’s 
meetings. The immense workload of the Council, which 
is  an  unfortunate  correlate  of  the  multiple  crises,  is  a 
challenge  that  must  be  addressed  by  the  international 
community,  starting  with  the  expert  community  in 
Geneva. In that city, which is home to comprehensive 
international protection mechanisms, the best ways to 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Council 
must  be  discussed  and  analysed  in  a  transparent  and 
inclusive  manner  together  with  all  the  interested 
18-35714
15/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
parties. That must include civil-society groups and the 
proposals that they submit.
Chile  will  participate  and  support  the  Council 
improvement  process,  whether  as  one  of  the  current 
Vice-Presidents  of  that  body  or  as  a  State  interested 
in  the  progress  of  the  international  human  rights 
architecture.  We  thank  the  Government  of  Slovenia 
and  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for 
the  opportunity  to  analyse  in  depth  the  path  towards 
the  improvement  of  that  body  looking  towards  2021, 
during the Human Rights Council retreat in Ljubljana 
that took place a few weeks ago. From that meeting, my 
country was able to conclude that, as 2021 approaches, 
the Council will benefit by showing itself to be a strong, 
vibrant and essential body that is indispensable to the 
United Nations system.
We  are  convinced  that  it  is  our  responsibility  to 
strengthen the Council, in the context of a community 
facing  global  issues  in  need  of  global  solutions.  That 
responsibility is particularly important in the framework 
of  the  celebration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  The 
Declaration  is  a  guide  that  inspires  us  to  continue 
working  to  ensure  that  all  people  can  achieve  their 
freedom, equality and dignity without any distinction, 
at all times and in all places.
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  that  my 
country will continue to work to ensure that the Human 
Rights  Council  remains  the  competent  multilateral 
authority  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights in the United Nations system.
Ms. Bavdaž Kuret (Slovenia): At the outset, let me 
say that Slovenia fully aligns itself with the statement 
made by the observer of the European Union. I would like 
to make additional comments in my national capacity.
At the end of this year, Slovenia will have completed 
its second term in the Human Rights Council. Let me 
therefore use this opportunity for some of our reflections. 
Human rights have been the cornerstone of Slovenian 
foreign policy since our independence in 1991. Through 
our  experience  in  past  years,  we  recognize  human 
rights  as  one  of  the  main  fields  where  Slovenia  can 
constructively  and  progressively  contribute  to  further 
positive developments in the wider international sphere. 
We  firmly  believe  that  there  is  a  strong  interlinkage 
between  peace  and  security,  sustainable  development 
and  human  rights.  The  first  two  cannot  be  achieved 
without  stringent  respect  for  the  latter.  Slovenia 
supports the principles of the universality, indivisibility, 
inalienability and interdependence of human rights for 
all, irrespective of any personal circumstances.
The Human Rights Council is the principal body in 
the United Nations system for dealing with all human 
rights issues. Slovenia has been actively engaged in the 
Council’s  work  since  its  creation  in  2006.  It  has  been 
an  honour  to  serve  a  second  term  in  that  key  global 
forum for human rights and fundamental freedoms for 
the past three years, and we are looking forward to our 
next membership. Until then we will remain a proactive 
observer State.
I  wish  to  reiterate  that  Slovenia  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  work  and  mandate  of  the  Council, 
which works well and has a good story to tell. It is truly 
a  much-needed  voice  for  human  dignity  and  human 
rights.  Over  the  past  decade  the  Council  has  brought 
about immense progress in the promotion and protection 
of human rights around the world; however, it can and 
should  do  more  and  better.  Let  us  not  forget  that  the 
Council  bears  the  heavy  responsibility  of  responding 
effectively to human rights challenges worldwide.
My  country  therefore  firmly  believes  that  we 
should  intensify  our  efforts  to  increase  the  Council’s 
ability  to  implement  the  commitments  that  Member 
States  make  in  Geneva  on  the  ground.  With  human 
rights  challenges  present  around  the  globe  today,  it  is 
of utmost importance to find new and innovative ways 
to translate the actions taken in room XX of the Palais 
des  Nations  in  Geneva  to  the  ground.  Let  me  remind 
the  Assembly  of  the  important  progress  that  we  have 
achieved with the Universal Periodic Review, one of the 
most  treasured  success  stories  of  the  United  Nations, 
and we continue to work out how to achieve something 
similar with other mechanisms.
During  our  term,  we  have  listened  carefully  to 
those  who  have  expressed  concerns  about  the  work 
of  the  Council.  As  in  any  other  United  Nations  body, 
there  is  room  for  further  improvement.  We  should 
strive  for  a  more  systematic  inclusion  of  the  human 
rights  dimension  in  conflict  prevention  and  for  closer 
cooperation  between  New  York  and  Geneva.  We  look 
forward to fruitful discussions as we prepare for the next 
official  review  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  2021. 
As human rights remains one of the three fundamental 
pillars of the United Nations, we should understand and 
use the Human Rights Council accordingly.
16/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
We  believe  in  the  Council’s  ability  to  address  its 
own challenges, and we wish to commend the current 
Council  President,  Ambassador  Vojislav  Šuc,  for  his 
dedication  and  efforts  to  build  a  more  effective  and 
efficient body. Slovenia strongly supports the ongoing 
work  of  the  Council’s  Bureau  aimed  at  increasing 
efficiency and improving methods of work. We believe 
that the efforts of the current Bureau will lead to a more 
efficient, effective and therefore stronger Human Rights 
Council. Slovenia is ready to support the continuation 
of  the  ongoing  efforts  to  enhance  the  Human  Rights 
increase 
Council, 
its 
working methods.
its  efficiency  and 
improve 
As the new High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
Ms. Bachelet, said at the latest session of the Council,
“[U]pholding  human  rights  is  in  the  interest  of 
every State. Your peoples seek a common agenda: 
rights, sustainable development and peace. We can 
only  progress  towards  that  vision  together.  If  we 
undermine  multilateral  institutions  such  as  this 
one,  we  will  fail  to  meet  the  challenges  that  our 
people face”.
On that basis, Slovenia will continue to engage in 
the  work  of  the  Council  in  our  future  capacity  as  an 
observer  State.  We  will  also  engage  constructively  in 
discussions  on  how  to  improve  the  Council,  its  work 
and its impact on the ground in coming years.
Mr. Hassani Nejad Pirkouhi (Islamic Republic of 
Iran):  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  takes  note  of  the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  as  contained  in 
document A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1. We also take note 
of  the  statement  made  by  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  Mr.  Vojislav  Šuc,  and  would  like  to 
thank him for his work as President of the Council.
At a time when racism, assaults on multilateralism, 
nationalist  populism,  extreme  supremacist  ideologies 
and  bigotry  show  no  sign  of  abating,  Iran  highlights 
the work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights 
and her Office, within their respective mandates. In our 
view, the Office has yet to be fully utilized as a medium 
for  dialogue  and  cooperation.  Regarding  the  work  of 
the  Council,  it  is  unfortunate  that  politicization  and 
manipulation  have  increased  mistrust  and  eroded  the 
effectiveness of the Council and its Universal Periodic 
Review mechanism. The initial idea behind the Universal 
Periodic Review mechanism was to ensure universality, 
objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality in the work 
of  the  Council,  as  was  also  noted  earlier  by  Mr.  Šuc 
in his remarks. Regrettably, some countries still prefer 
to  revert  to  the  dysfunctional  practice  of  submitting 
country-specific  resolutions,  which  serve  only 
to 
increase confrontation in the Council.
As  a  product  of  the  unconstructive  initiatives 
undertaken by some countries, the report of the Council 
includes  a  reference  to  resolution  37/30,  which  was 
adopted  against  my  country.  The  resolution  is  one 
of  those  cases  that  exposes  the  shortcomings  of  the 
Council. It is nothing but a reflection of the short-sighted 
political interests of its sponsors, as well as a waste of 
limited resources that could otherwise be utilized for the 
meaningful promotion and protection of human rights. 
Accordingly, the Islamic Republic of Iran disassociates 
itself from that part of the report of the Human Rights 
Council.  At  the  same  time,  we  reiterate  our  position 
of  the  non-recognition  of  and  non-cooperation  with 
the  mandates  that  have  been  created  by  the  Council 
outside the sphere of internationally recognized human 
rights mechanisms.
the 
My  delegation  recognizes 
importance  of 
strengthening  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Council within the framework of the institution-building 
texts  attached  to  Human  Rights  Council  resolutions 
5/1  and  16/21.  Within  that  framework,  my  delegation 
underlines  the  importance  of  maintaining  the  current 
structure  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  agenda,  in 
particular standing agenda item 7.
We  welcome  the  idea  of  reducing  the  duration  of 
the Human Rights Council panel discussions from three 
to  two  hours.  We  also  welcome  the  decision  taken  by 
consensus in the Human Rights Council to hold the 2019 
panel discussion on mainstreaming human rights under 
the title “Human rights in the light of multilateralism: 
opportunities,  challenges  and  the  way  forward”.  The 
title could not be timelier.
Meanwhile, my delegation views unfavourably the 
ideas proposed in the framework of efforts to increase 
the effectiveness of the Council that entail changes to 
the  structure  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review.  They 
include  a  suggestion  to  dispense  with  the  adoption  of 
the final outcome report of the Working Group on the 
Universal Periodic Review. We also disagree with any 
reduction in the time allocated for a State’s right of reply. 
In  our  view,  any  modification  or  decision  concerning 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review  has  to  be  taken  within 
the  framework  of  the  existing  institution-building 
documents and the relevant rules of procedure.
18-35714
17/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
Also on the issue of the rationalization of Human 
Rights Council resolutions, my delegation underscores 
the  importance  of  the  institution-building  package. 
Follow-up measures by the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights should also be 
conducted in a balanced, fair and equal manner.
stresses 
the  Human  Rights  Council, 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
the 
importance  of  further  cooperation  and  interaction 
between 
the  Third 
Committee  and  the  General  Assembly  with  a  view  to 
improving  effectiveness  and  enhancing  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  in  a  cooperative  and 
dialogue-based manner.
Ms.  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank Mr. Vojislav Šuc, President 
of the Human Rights Council, for his presentation of the 
Council’s report (A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1).
I also take this opportunity to stress the importance 
of the mandate of the Human Rights Council, especially 
given the increasing challenges faced by our world today 
in terms of the rise in the number of armed conflicts, 
acts of terrorism, violent extremism and discrimination. 
Those challenges have caused suffering and poverty, in 
addition to unprecedented flows of migrants throughout 
the  world,  with  clear  impacts  on  human  rights  at  the 
social, economic, civil and cultural levels.
The State of Qatar has been implementing a policy 
of international cooperation whereby it can contribute 
effectively  to  international  efforts  to  promote  and 
protect human rights, either by participating effectively 
in  the  relevant  international  agencies  or  by  providing 
the  necessary  resources  to  support  the  work  of  the 
United Nations bodies and mechanisms concerned with 
human  rights  and  cooperate  with  them.  For  example, 
the  State  of  Qatar  hosts  the  United  Nations  Human 
Rights Training and Documentation Centre for South-
West Asia and the Arab Region. We have also adopted 
an open-door policy for receiving the mandate holders 
of the Council mechanisms.
Through  its  membership  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  State  of  Qatar  is  keen  on  participating 
effectively  and  cooperating  constructively  with  other 
member  States  so  as  to  enable  the  Human  Rights 
Council to uphold its mandate in the best way, guided 
by  the  principles  of  impartiality,  objectivity  and 
non-selectivity.  We  continue  to  abide  by  our  pledges 
and our effective contribution to Human Rights Council 
efforts aimed at strengthening respect for human rights 
and  rapidly  addressing  human  rights  violations,  as 
well  as  strengthening  accountability  for  human  rights 
violations and putting an end to impunity.
The wise leadership of the State of Qatar has great 
interest in the promotion and protection of human rights. 
It works tirelessly to build a State and a society where 
the  dignity  and  freedom  of  the  people  are  protected. 
That is in accordance with the Qatari Constitution and 
national laws, which are in harmony with the relevant 
international  conventions  on  human  rights,  including 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  the 
seventieth anniversary of which we are commemorating 
this year. We believe in the importance of the right to 
development. That is why we have mainstreamed that 
right in Qatar National Vision 2030 with regard to many 
objectives  related  to  human  rights  issues  in  human, 
social, economic and environmental development. That 
has also been translated into our national development 
strategies. At the same time, the State of Qatar is keen 
on  promoting  national  human  rights  institutions  and 
protecting the independence thereof. That includes the 
National  Human  Rights  Committee,  which  seeks  to 
raise  community  awareness  of  human  rights  and  the 
obligations of individuals, social justice and tolerance, 
strengthening  equality  and  non-discrimination,  and 
ending human rights violations.
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  mention  that  the 
National  Human  Rights  Committee  has  listed  in 
various detailed reports, which have been corroborated 
statistically,  numerous  human  rights  violations  that 
were  the  result  of  illegal  and  arbitrary  unilateral 
coercive  measures  that  have  been  carried  out  against 
the  State  of  Qatar  since  June  2017.  The  reports  also 
reveal  the  impacts  of  those  violations  in  many  vital 
areas on families, individuals and groups of people in 
the  State  of  Qatar  and  in  the  countries  imposing  that 
unjust embargo. Such measures contradict international 
commitments  to  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights, and the international community must therefore 
condemn and reject them.
The report of the Human Rights Council contains 
resolutions  regarding  the  human  rights  situation  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  which  reflect  the 
continued egregious violations of the human rights of 
the  Palestinian  people.  That  people  should  be  able  to 
enjoy its inalienable rights, which are guaranteed under 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international human rights law.
18/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
Given  the  devastating  impacts  of  the  continuing 
Syrian crisis on the human rights of the brotherly Syrian 
people,  the  Human  Rights  Council  has  responded 
with a resolution addressing the dangerous conditions 
facing civilians and the violation of their fundamental 
freedoms.  The 
should 
therefore take urgent and effective steps commensurate 
with such violations. The best way to put an end to those 
violations  is  to  reach  a  political  solution  to  the  crisis 
through  Syrian  negotiations  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations.
international  community 
like 
to  reiterate 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
the 
commitment of the State of Qatar to the promotion and 
protection of human rights at the national, regional and 
international levels. We will spare no effort to uphold 
our human rights commitments, and we will continue 
to  support  United  Nations  human  rights  mechanisms, 
with  the  ultimate  goal  of  promoting  human  rights  for 
all humankind.
Ms.  Shaheen  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): At the outset, I should like to congratulate the 
newly elected members of the Human Rights Council. I 
also congratulate those members who were re-elected to 
the Council. We stress the importance of our country’s 
commitment as a member of the Council to participate 
effectively and cooperate constructively in the area of 
protecting and promoting human rights.
We listened to the statement made in the General 
Assembly today by the President of the Human Rights 
Council.  We  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  of  our 
commitment to uphold international humanitarian law 
and  other  commitments  in  that  regard.  The  United 
Arab Emirates regrets the lack of consensus within the 
Human Rights Council regarding the crisis in Yemen.
This  year,  we  commemorate 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. It is an opportunity to reflect on the importance 
of that historic document, an importance that continues 
to  grow  over  time,  especially  in  the  light  of  the 
challenges that we currently face in terms of the human 
rights  situations  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  In  that 
regard, I want to assure the Assembly of the steadfast 
commitment of my country to human rights nationally, 
regionally  and  internationally,  in  keeping  with  our 
national priorities and international commitments.
The United Arab Emirates stresses its commitment 
to  continue  working  as  a  model  for  change  in  the 
region  and  as  an  active  member  of  the  international 
community. We shall continue to develop and advance 
our national standards with regard to human rights and 
to bring them into line with international standards, in 
addition  to  strengthening  and  developing  our  various 
human  rights  mechanisms  and  institutions.  We  are 
also  determined  to  step  up  cooperation  with  United 
Nations  human  rights  bodies  and  mechanisms  and  to 
provide  them  with  the  necessary  support  so  that  they 
can  carry  out  their  tasks  and  activities,  including  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council.  We  consider  it  an  important  and 
constructive mechanism for exchanging experience and 
best practices among Member States so as to ensure the 
realization of human rights.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  submitted  its  third 
periodic review to the Human Rights Council in January. 
We underscored the efforts we have undertaken over the 
past four and a half years, including the developments 
within our legislative and legal framework, as well as 
the strengthening of national human rights mechanisms 
and best practices to protect and promote human rights. 
My delegation also reported to the Council on the second 
periodic review recommendations that we have accepted 
and implemented. That review was broadly welcomed 
by member States and by a number of non-governmental 
organizations,  reflecting  the  spirit  of  constructive 
partnership  with  all  relevant  bodies  and  institutions. 
Furthermore,  my  country  is  preparing  to  develop  a 
national  plan  to  follow  up  on  the  implementation  of 
the recommendations that we accepted under the third 
periodic review of human rights.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  working  constantly 
to  improve  its  human  rights  record.  We  strive  to 
interact  positively  with  international  practices  in  that 
regard. As for strengthening our national human rights 
mechanisms,  we  have  taken  the  necessary  steps  to 
establish  a  national  human  rights  institution,  in  line 
with  the  Paris  Principles  on  such  bodies.  We  have 
already  carried  out  a  review  of  the  draft  law  creating 
that institution, which will be adopted in the near future.
We have also made important achievements in terms 
of  promoting  and  developing  our  national  legislation, 
policies and strategies concerning the empowerment of 
women, gender equality, the empowerment of young and 
disabled people, the protection of children, combating 
crimes  related  to  human  trafficking,  strengthening 
laws  regarding  the  rights  of  employees  working  for 
the  Government,  as  well  as  promoting  tolerance  and 
eliminating all forms of racial discrimination through 
18-35714
19/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
the national tolerance programme. My country recently 
launched  its  national  policy  for  the  elderly  aimed  at 
improving  their  quality  of  life  and  at  ensuring  their 
effective  and  continuous  participation  in  our  national 
social  fabric.  Those  efforts  have  put  our  country  in 
an  advanced  position  on  the  human  development  and 
universal  happiness  indices,  in  addition  to  the  rule  of 
law and competitiveness.
is  committed 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
to 
upholding our international human rights commitments 
and  cooperating  with 
international 
mechanisms for the protection and promotion of human 
rights.  In  that  regard,  we  submitted  to  the  relevant 
committee  our  first  report  in  June  under  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Torture.  We  are  awaiting 
the setting of a date to review that report.
relevant 
the 
As part of strengthening cooperation and dialogue 
with  other  United  Nations  mechanisms  of  the  Human 
Rights Council, the United Arab Emirates has extended 
invitations  to  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  rights  of 
persons  with  disabilities  and  the  Special  Rapporteur 
on  the  right  to  education  to  visit  our  country  for  an 
exchange  of  experience  and  best  practices  in  the 
area  of  empowering  individuals  with  disabilities  and 
strengthening the right to education.
In conclusion, I wish to underscore that the United 
Arab Emirates has made tremendous headway in terms of 
human rights in a short period of time. We shall continue 
to  undertake  assiduous  efforts  to  constructively  and 
systematically enhance the protection and promotion of 
human rights.
Ms. Kipiani (Georgia): At the outset, I would like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/73/53  and  A/73/53/
Add.1)  and  for  his  efforts  and  dedication  to  fulfilling 
the mandate of the Council.
The  current  human  rights  situation  is  deeply 
worrying, with violence, discrimination and inequality 
affecting the lives of people in all corners of the globe. 
Since its establishment, the Human Rights Council has 
served as the backbone of our human rights commitments. 
The recommendations of the Council, special-procedure 
mandate holders, the Universal Periodic Review process 
and the technical assistance provided by the Office of 
the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR), 
together  with  other  human  rights  mechanisms  of  the 
United  Nations  machinery,  represent  important  tools 
for addressing human rights issues. Nevertheless, much 
more  needs  to  be  done  to  realize  the  full  potential  of 
this  institution.  In  that  respect,  I  should  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  once  again  to  express  gratitude  to 
President Vojislav Šuc for his tireless efforts to increase 
the  efficiency  of  the  work  of  the  Council  on  both  the 
substantive and the technical levels.
in 
important  role 
When  discussing  the  human  rights  machinery, 
one  must  not  underestimate  the  importance  of  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  process.  Georgia  deems 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review  a  unique  human 
rights  mechanism  that  enables  States  to  better  assess 
developments and implement the policies necessary to 
improve and advance human rights. We believe that the 
legislative  branch  of  Governments  must  necessarily 
play  an 
implementing  United 
Nations  human  rights  recommendations,  since  they 
may require new or amended legislation and, in some 
cases, national budget appropriations. Parliaments can 
also play an important role in overseeing Government 
implementation  and  compliance  with  international 
human rights recommendations. We also welcome the 
wider  engagement  of  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs) and national human rights institutions. As for 
the  recommendations  received  by  Georgia  during  the 
second review cycle, they are being translated into the 
Government’s  Action  Plan  for  Human  Rights  2018-
2020, which is based on our comprehensive long-term 
human rights strategy.
Georgia supports the strengthening of the Council’s 
delivery  of  technical  assistance  and  capacity-building 
support under its agenda item 10, in consultation with 
and with the consent of the Member States concerned. 
Once  again,  the  active  participation  of  civil-society 
actors  in  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
its  mechanisms  is  instrumental.  We  underline  the 
importance  of  strengthening  the  role  of  NGOs  and  of 
safeguarding the space for civil society so as to ensure 
that  their  voices  are  heard.  Without  close  cooperation 
with  all  stakeholders,  it  is  impossible  to  secure 
sustainable  development  based  on  democratic  values, 
the rule of law and human rights.
joins 
the 
Georgia 
the  calls  of 
international 
community  for  an  immediate  end  to  reprisals  against 
human  rights  defenders.  There  is  an  urgent  need  for 
all  States  to  take  necessary  measures  to  prevent  such 
intimidation  and  reprisals  and  to  take  appropriate 
action to provide remedies for all acts of intimidation 
and reprisals.
20/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
Georgia  attaches  particular  importance  to  the 
issue  of  the  implementation  of  the  treaty  obligations 
and  human  rights  recommendations  emanating  from 
the  United  Nations  human  rights  system.  At  the 
national  level,  Georgia  has  established  an  institution 
mandated to track and coordinate the national follow-
up  to  and  implementation  of  such  obligations  and 
recommendations.  We 
that  Member 
States  continue  efforts  aimed  at  the  establishment 
and/or  strengthening  of  national  mechanisms,  with 
civil-society participation, that are responsible for the 
coordination  of  the  implementation  of,  reporting  on 
and  follow-up  to  the  human  rights  recommendations 
generated  by  the  main  United  Nations  human  rights 
mechanisms and the relevant regional mechanisms.
recommend 
I would like to stress Georgia’s full support for the 
special  procedures,  which  represent  another  effective 
tool  for  addressing  country-specific  and  thematic 
situations. Georgia has extended a standing invitation 
to  all  special-procedure  mandate  holders  and  has 
already  hosted  several  visits  by  them,  including  the 
Independent Expert on protection against violence and 
discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender 
identity, who visited Georgia few weeks ago.
During  the  reporting  year,  the  Human  Rights 
Council  has  adopted  various  significant  thematic  and 
country-specific  resolutions.  In  that  regard,  let  me 
underline  Human  Rights  Council  resolution  37/40, 
entitled  “Cooperation  with  Georgia”,  which  calls  for 
immediate access for OHCHR and other international 
and regional human rights mechanisms to the occupied 
regions  of  Georgia.  We  believe  that  OHCHR’s  strong 
leadership and engagement on the matter will prevent 
any further deterioration of the situation on the ground.
In conclusion, let me underline Georgia’s readiness 
to  join  the  international  community  in  strengthening 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  across 
the world.
Mr. Lal (India): We welcome the President of the 
Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador  Vojislav  Šuc,  to 
this meeting and thank him for his informative briefing.
One  month  from  now,  we  will  celebrate  the 
seventieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
text 
underlying our collective efforts to promote and protect 
the human rights of all.
the  guiding 
Since  its  establishment  12  years  ago,  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  as  an  intergovernmental  subsidiary 
body of the General Assembly, has sought to overcome 
the problems that its predecessor faced. The work of the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  its  associated  procedures 
and mandates is, regrettably, getting more contentious 
and difficult. More broadly, the global situation today 
is  troubling,  with  concern  growing  over  the  multiple 
challenges posed to the spirit of multilateralism owing 
to the ineffectiveness of global governance mechanisms 
in finding commonly acceptable solutions. The reasons 
for many of the difficulties relating to the human rights 
agenda flow from the often very divergent priorities and 
concerns of Member States as a result of their differing 
levels of development, social and cultural contexts, and 
governance systems.
While  the  global  discourse  on  human  rights 
continues to evolve, fundamental contradictions remain. 
The relative prioritization of the individual versus the 
State, national sovereignty versus international norms, 
and  a  universal  versus  a  culture-specific  approach  all 
evoke differing opinions. Instances of the politicization 
of human rights as a foreign policy tool and perceived 
intrusiveness beyond mandated activities remain areas 
of concern.
Terrorism  has  emerged  as  one  of  the  worst  forms 
of  the  violation  of  human  rights.  My  country  has  had 
to  face  repeated  terrorist  attacks  on  innocent  people, 
which  have  originated  beyond  our  borders.  Despite 
terrorism  being  acknowledged  as  one  of  the  foremost 
global challenges, any meaningful collective response 
to  address  that  menace  continues  to  be  thwarted  by 
some.  We  will  soon  also  have  to  consider  the  varied 
and  uneven  impact  of  emerging  technologies —  from 
cyberengineering  to  genetic  engineering  and  artificial 
intelligence — on peoples’ lives and rights.
The work of the Human Rights Council continues 
to  expand.  The  effectiveness  of  its  work  is,  however, 
not always clear. There is also a proliferation of special 
procedures  on  both  thematic  and  country-specific 
situations. Instances of such mechanisms and officials 
operating  on  their  own  without  any  mandate  and 
producing clearly biased documents only further harm 
the credibility of the United Nations.
In  contrast, 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
mechanism has seen significant success over the 12 years 
of the work of the Human Rights Council. All Member 
States have presented their Universal Periodic Review 
18-35714
21/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
at least once. India has presented its Universal Periodic 
Review  in  each  of  the  three  cycles.  A  large  number 
of  specific  recommendations  have  been  implemented 
by  a  number  of  Member  States,  including  India.  The 
concrete success of the Universal Periodic Review and 
the voluntary national review mechanisms in New York 
is  due  to  their  constructive  and  participatory  nature, 
as  opposed  to  the  selective  “naming-and-shaming” 
approach that has often been resorted to.
As an ancient civilization of immense diversity and 
the world’s largest democracy today, India has abiding 
faith  in  the  spirit  of  multilateralism.  India’s  approach 
to  human  rights  continues  to  evolve  as  more  rights 
become  justiciable  and  the  process  of  the  progressive 
interpretation of laws by our judiciary evolves.
As  an  elected  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  term  beginning  next  year,  we  remain 
committed  to  bringing  a  pluralistic,  moderate  and 
balanced perspective aimed at trying to bridge multiple 
divides. The human rights agenda must be pursued in a 
fair and equal manner with objectivity, non-selectivity 
and transparency. For the success of our collective and 
common  cause  of  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights  our  approach  should  not  be  confrontational  but 
should instead focus on a more inclusive, participatory 
and  positive  approach  through  dialogue  and  capacity-
building.
Mr.  Jaime  Calderón  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): At the outset, I should like to recognize the 
work  of  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Mr. Vojislav Šuc of Slovenia, throughout the year 2018. 
Having presided over the Council in 2017, El Salvador 
recognizes  the  importance  of  the  contributions  and 
perspectives  of  small  countries  when  it  comes  to  the 
universal  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights 
and the need to uphold the essential role of the Human 
Rights  Council  as  a  central  part  of  the  human  rights 
pillar of United Nations activity.
We  would  like  to  make  some  comments  on  the 
report  contained  in  documents  A/73/53  and  A/73/53/
Add.1.
First,  El  Salvador  welcomes  the  diverse  range  of 
themes  addressed  in  the  Council’s  three  sessions  this 
past year, as well as the many successfully concluded 
Universal  Periodic  Reviews.  However,  while  we  note 
that the Council adopted many specific resolutions, we 
also recognize a high level of duplication between the 
Council’s agenda and resolutions and those of the Third 
Committee  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  therefore 
reiterate  our  call  on  their  respective  future  presiding 
officers to plan their work jointly so as to ensure that the 
Council,  a  subsidiary  body  of  the  General  Assembly, 
and  the  Third  Committee  of  the  Assembly  carry  out 
complementary activities without duplication.
My  delegation  wishes 
The  adoption  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  of 
more than 10 resolutions on country-specific situations 
provides  a  clear  example  of  such  duplication.  El 
Salvador is of the opinion that the Council is, in fact, the 
most appropriate body to discuss such matters, which, 
together with the Universal Periodic Review, represent 
useful monitoring mechanisms for all Member States, 
and we therefore believe that the introduction of specific 
draft resolutions in the Third Committee is redundant.
to  highlight  Council 
resolutions 37/7, 37/24 and 37/25, on the links between 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and the universal promotion and protection 
of  civil,  political,  social,  economic  and  human  rights. 
El  Salvador  takes  a  holistic  view  of  development  and 
considers fundamentally artificial any perspective that 
disconnects efforts on the ground to achieve sustainable 
development from the promotion of human rights. The 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
goes hand in hand with the application of the various 
conventions and covenants on human rights. El Salvador 
therefore welcomes the decisions taken in paragraphs 1, 
2 and 7 of Council resolution 37/24, whereby the Human 
Rights Council will hold discussions on communicating 
its  perspective  to  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development.
El  Salvador  is  a  member  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council and will present the second edition of its 
Voluntary  National  Review  to  the  High-level  Political 
Forum  in  July  2019.  We  will  work  together  with  all 
Member States to ensure that those inputs are used and 
taken into account. It is necessary to point out, however, 
that that approach should be part of a wider conversation 
under the leadership of the President of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  in  which  we  can  learn  from  that 
exercise,  as  well  as  those  of  previous  years,  and  seek 
to  take  better  advantage  of  the  Forum,  not  by  simply 
taking note but rather by truly making use of the diverse 
inputs provided by the various specialized bodies of the 
United Nations system.
22/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
to 
the 
With 
regard 
specific  question  of 
implementation modalities and in relation to the content 
of Human Rights Council resolution 37/25, we wish to 
make  it  clear  that  El  Salvador’s  position  remains  that 
we should use the channels established by the follow-
up  processes  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  the 
Second Committee and the High-level Political Forum 
as  channels  for  discussing  Sustainable  Development 
Goal  17  and  other  topics  relating  to  implementation 
mechanisms  in  the  context  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
El  Salvador  welcomes  Council  resolutions  38/4, 
entitled  “Human  rights  and  climate  change”,  and 
38/10,  entitled  “Human  rights  and  the  regulation  of 
civilian  acquisition,  possession  and  use  of  firearms”. 
Both  resolutions  are  clear  examples  of  the  linkages 
between  the  human  rights,  sustainable  development 
and  peace  and  security  agendas,  which  should  be 
viewed holistically from the perspective of prevention 
in  accordance  with  the  recent  reform  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General and the vision of sustainable peace, 
which my Government supports.
We would also like to highlight, although it is not 
a  resolution,  the  joint  declaration  on  unaccompanied 
migrant  children  and  adolescents,  presented  by  El 
Salvador  at  the  thirty-ninth  session  of  the  Council  in 
September 2018, which was supported by a large number 
of  countries.  Upholding  human  rights  throughout  the 
migratory cycle, especially in the case of boys, girls and 
adolescents, is of the greatest importance to my country, 
and  we  highlight  the  inclusion  of  that  perspective  in 
Council resolutions 37/13, 37/18, 37/20, 38/4, 38/6, 38/8, 
38/9, 38/12, 38/19, 39/12 and 39/17.
In  conclusion,  El  Salvador  wishes  once  again  to 
express  its  full  support  for  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  adoption  of  its  report,  in  its 
entirety, by the General Assembly. We are aware of the 
need  to  continually  improve  the  work  of  the  Council 
and of the need for States, civil society, the media and 
our citizens to remain vigilant so as to ensure that the 
Human Rights Council not make the same mistakes as 
its predecessor. We congratulate all those States elected 
as new members of the Human Rights Council for the 
term  2019-2022,  and  we  are  certain  that  they  will, 
in  fulfilling  their  duties,  rise  to  meet  current  global 
expectations  for  greater  consensus  and  progress,  with 
no  room  for  backsliding,  in  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights for all.
thanks 
Mr.  Favre  (Switzerland)  (spoke 
the  President  of 
in  French): 
Switzerland 
the  Human 
Rights  Council  for  his  statement  and  commends  his 
commitment. We are proud of the work achieved by the 
Human Rights Council under his presidency.
Over  the  past  year,  the  Council  has  responded  to 
emerging situations and renewed important mandates. 
Our country welcomes the Council’s efforts to improve 
the  impact  of  its  work  on  the  ground.  We  encourage 
it  strongly  to  continue  developing  monitoring  and 
follow-up instruments aimed at ensuring the effective 
implementation  by  States  of  the  recommendations 
issued  by  treaty  bodies,  special  procedures  and  the 
Universal Periodic Review. We call on all countries to 
support that crucial approach.
At  the  same  time,  we  fully  support  the  efforts  of 
the  Council’s  President  to  strengthen  that  body,  in 
particular by improving the efficiency of its functioning 
and increasing its visibility within the United Nations 
system.  Switzerland  welcomes 
the  President’s 
determination  to  address  the  challenges  relating  to 
resource  shortfalls.  In  that  respect,  it  is  crucial  that 
consideration be given to how to optimize its working 
methods.  Pursuing  certain  initiatives  on  a  two-year 
timeline seems to be a potentially fruitful approach in 
that context.
Switzerland continues to believe that human rights 
will be respected, protected and promoted only if they 
are  fully  integrated  into  the  United  Nations  global 
agenda. Switzerland supports the reforms being carried 
out by the Secretary-General. The question of the place 
of human rights in a reformed United Nations was the 
subject  of  the  fifth  Glion  Human  Rights  Dialogue. 
The  Dialogue  highlighted,  in  particular,  the  need  for 
coordinated action across the three pillars of the United 
Nations in order to fully achieve the Secretary-General’s 
objectives, given the close interrelationship that exists 
between  them.  The  discussions  also  highlighted  the 
importance of efforts to reduce the gap between Geneva 
and New York. In that regard, Switzerland notes that the 
discussions  and  deliberations  held  in  Geneva  seem  to 
have little resonance with the New York bodies.
In the light of that situation, Switzerland launched the 
13 June appeal on the occasion of the tenth anniversary 
of the Human Rights Council, in 2016. That initiative 
seeks  to  place  human  rights  at  the  heart  of  conflict 
prevention.  Switzerland  calls  on  all  Member  States 
to  join  the  71  countries  that  have  already  supported 
18-35714
23/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
that  appeal  and  to  commit  to  implementing  it.  The 
appeal calls, inter alia, for stepping up the exchange of 
information between the Human Rights Council and the 
Security Council. The President of the Human Rights 
Council also has a central role to play in ensuring that 
information is exchanged more systematically.
In  conclusion,  Switzerland  underscores  once 
again  the  importance  of  civil  society  when  it  comes 
to 
respecting,  protecting  and  promoting  human 
rights.  We  recall  that  civil-society  activities  form  an 
indispensable  complement  to  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. In that context, Switzerland is alarmed 
by the intimidation and reprisals faced by civil-society 
actors  working  to  uphold  human  rights.  Switzerland 
urges States to take all necessary measures to eliminate 
such unacceptable practices.
Mr.  Carazo  Zeledón  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  appreciate  the  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  during  its  thirty-seventh 
thirty-eighth  sessions  and 
and 
twenty-seventh 
and 
twenty-eighth  special  sessions  (A/73/53  and 
A/73/53/Add.1), and we thank the Council’s President, 
Ambassador Vojislav Šuc, for his presentation.
its 
Costa Rica reaffirms its commitment to human rights 
as being universal, indivisible and interdependent. All 
of us enjoy fundamental rights, which are common to 
all societies and cultural traditions and are based on the 
intrinsic dignity of each person at all times everywhere. 
That  concept  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  United  Nations 
human  rights  system.  That  is  why  we  reiterate  with 
conviction our support for the work of the Council and 
its role as the leading intergovernmental body charged 
with  promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection 
of  the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  all 
people, without distinction of any kind and in a fair and 
equitable  manner,  guided  by  impartiality,  objectivity, 
non-selectivity, dialogue and cooperation.
We  must  ensure  that  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  is  inspired  by  and  focused  on  giving 
voice to all people, especially the most vulnerable and 
marginalized,  which  includes  denouncing  barbarities, 
fighting all forms of discrimination and violence, and 
making  progress  towards  reducing  inequality.  We 
welcome the institutional strengthening of the Council 
and especially the Universal Periodic Review, a unique 
process  that  places  all  States  on  an  equal  footing  in 
analysing  their  human  rights  situations  based  on  the 
principles of cooperation and constructive international 
dialogue,  and  allows  not  only  for  the  review  of 
countries’  compliance  with  their  obligations  but  also 
for the improvement of the practices and approaches in 
all countries.
We firmly believe that there should be a relationship 
of equality, and not of asymmetry, between the Council 
and the main bodies of the United Nations. Efforts to 
strengthen the Council and improve its functioning, in 
clear  and  close  coordination  with  other  mechanisms 
of the human rights system, such as treaty bodies, and 
with  other  components  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
in  particular  the  Third  Committee  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  are  essential. 
Better articulation among all the bodies would have a 
direct  impact  on  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all 
human rights and thereby ensure a better quality of life 
for everyone.
Given  the  exponential  growth  in  the  Council’s 
workload to an unsustainable level and the fragmentation 
of  topics,  we  welcome  the  efforts  to  rationalize  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council,  including  seeking 
long-term  solutions  so  as  to  improve  its  effectiveness 
and efficiency, which include measures to improve the 
annual  work  programme,  streamline  the  number  of 
resolutions and initiatives, consider certain resolutions 
every two years instead of annually, avoid duplication 
of  effort,  consolidate  resolutions  on  related  topics, 
and  make  maximum  use  of  modern  technology.  We 
are  grateful  for  the  briefings  held  on  those  efforts  by 
the President of the Council throughout the year with 
a  view  to  maintaining  constant  coordination  between 
New York and Geneva, and we hope that the upcoming 
month of December will see the adoption of a package 
of  measures  aimed  at  helping  to  strengthen  the 
Council’s work.
Although  not  currently  a  member  of  the  Council, 
Costa  Rica  has  striven  to  cooperate  with  the  Council 
in its work. In that regard, we have supported various 
initiatives, including one seeking to protect human rights 
in the context of peaceful protest, which was adopted by 
consensus. We also worked on the resolution on human 
rights education, which establishes a new human rights 
training programme at the global level under the Office 
of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We 
ascribe particular importance to the emphasis on human 
rights training in the light of the worldwide tendency to 
dehumanize  and  discriminate  against  certain  groups, 
such  as  migrants,  refugees  and  minorities  among 
others. We must return to the very foundations of the 
24/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
international community, starting with article 1 of the 
Universal Declaration, which recognizes that all human 
beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.
We  welcome  the  adoption  of  Council  resolution 
37/8,  entitled  “Human  rights  and  the  environment”, 
renewing  the  mandate  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on 
that  topic  and  giving  him  the  mandate  to  brief  the 
Third Committee. Costa Rica stands ready to support 
the Special Rapporteur and, in particular, to contribute 
to  defining  a  road  map  leading  to  the  recognition 
of  the  right  to  a  healthy  and  stable  environment  as  a 
fundamental  human  right  to  be  enjoyed  by  all  and 
leaving no one behind.
We  also  draw  attention  to  the  adoption  at  the 
most  recent  session,  which  ended  on  1  October,  of 
resolution  39/1,  entitled  “Promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela”, 
which was submitted by 11 countries, including Costa 
Rica,  and  sponsored  by  more  than  42  countries.  That 
resolution,  adopted  for  the  first  time,  reiterates  the 
primary  responsibility  of  all  States  to  promote  and 
protect  the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
of  their  citizens  and  to  comply  with  their  obligations 
under  international  human  rights  law.  The  resolution 
calls  on 
to  accept 
humanitarian assistance aimed at mitigating shortages 
in foods and medicines, the increase in the number of 
cases  of  malnutrition  and  the  outbreak  of  previously 
eradicated diseases.
the  Venezuelan  Government 
Based  on  our  unwavering  commitment  to  human 
rights,  we  will  continue  to  work  and  collaborate 
constructively  for  a  Human  Rights  Council  that  is 
effective, transparency, robust and responsive.
Mr. Moraru (Republic of Moldova): The Republic 
of Moldova welcomes the report of the Human Rights 
Council (A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1) presented by the 
President of the Council, Ambassador Mr. Vojislav Šuc. 
We appreciate Ambassador Šuc’s dedicated work as the 
President  of  the  Council  and  wish  to  express  our  full 
support to him.
Seventy-three years ago, the Charter of the United 
Nations  established  human  rights  as  one  of  the  three 
fundamental  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  system 
alongside  peace  and  security  and  development.  The 
Human  Rights  Council  is,  therefore,  a  central  body 
of  this  Organization,  serving  as  a  platform  for  the 
promotion  of  human  rights  worldwide  and  keeping 
a  constant  watchful  eye  on  the  world’s  most  pressing 
human rights challenges.
The  variety  of  issues  contained  in  the  Council’s 
report this year attests to the intensity of the work of the 
United Nations system in the area of human rights and 
the ever-expanding list of issues that require the utmost 
attention  of  the  international  community.  This  year, 
we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  Declaration  on  Human  Rights 
Defenders, and the States Members of the United Nations 
should therefore maintain their support for and continue 
their engagement with the Human Rights Council with 
the view to promoting the fundamental principles and 
commitments contained in those Declarations.
the 
While no country in the world can claim to have a 
perfect human rights record, the Republic of Moldova 
shares  the  belief  that  imperfections  and  deficiencies 
should not be concealed or swept aside. We very often 
hear,  and  many  States  agree,  that  human  rights  are 
universal, inalienable, interrelated, interdependent and 
indivisible.  But  as  repetitive  as  it  may  sound,  that  is 
not  a  hollow  affirmation.  They  are  the  principles  that 
encompass the essence of human rights and the way in 
which the United Nations should approach them.
There  can  be  divergences  of  opinion  that  are 
based  on  various  political  or  cultural  peculiarities. 
However,  engaging  in  dialogue  and  embracing  the 
human  rights  system  that  Member  States  themselves 
have created is far more productive and beneficial, both 
for  multilateralism  and  for  human  rights  protection, 
than  simply  rebuffing  it.  In  that  respect,  we  reaffirm 
the  importance  of  granting  the  unimpeded  access  of 
mandate holders to countries, institutions, individuals 
and civil society with a view to ensuring the fulfilment 
of the Human Rights Council’s primary role in efforts 
to ensure accountability and improve the human rights 
situation worldwide.
We are concerned that, despite the intricate United 
Nations  system  in  place,  human  rights  violations  and 
abuses  continue,  in  many  cases  with  impunity,  the 
most  disconcerting  being  the  continuing  reprisals 
against  human 
the  countless 
innocent victims, including children, fallen in wars or 
subjected to tremendous suffering, and the continuing 
subjugation of entire populations to misinformation or 
manipulation through the control of the media or other 
means for strategic purposes that are incompatible with 
rights  defenders, 
18-35714
25/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
international law. The list certainly does not end there. 
Those are unacceptable acts, and Member States have 
the  moral  and  legal  responsibility  to  protect  everyone 
from harm and persecution. The Human Rights Council 
has  the  responsibility  to  remain  alert  and  respond 
swiftly to such undesirable situations.
Moreover,  it  has  been  stated  many  times  that 
human  rights  violations  are  often  the  precursors  of 
conflicts.  Therefore,  while  the  persistent  pointing  out 
of  such  human  rights  violations  may  often  appear 
to  be  a  cause  of  irritation  to  Member  States,  in  fact 
addressing those violations in good faith and building 
institutions  for  human  rights  protection  could  be  the 
very  solution  needed  to  ensure  prosperous  and  stable 
societies  and  to  prevent  conflicts.  In  that  regard,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  is  the  necessary  platform  for 
dialogue  among  Governments  and  with  civil  society 
in  order  to  ensure  that  violations  and  grievances  are 
talked  through  and  solutions  found  in  a  constructive 
and non-politicized manner.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  Council  in  2006, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  has  adopted  a  cooperative 
approach  towards  its  mechanisms  and  has  issued  a 
standing invitation to all thematic special procedures. 
The Moldovan Government remains ready to honour that 
standing invitation; many rapporteurs have visited our 
country in the past, and we remain open to cooperating 
with full transparency and diligence in the future.
Our third National Action Plan on Human Rights, 
for  2018-2022,  adopted  this  year,  incorporates  the 
recommendations of United Nations monitoring bodies 
and  other  relevant  regional  organizations,  resulting 
in  a  comprehensive  road  map  that  the  Government  is 
fully  committed  to  pursuing.  Moreover,  that  National 
Action Plan reflects most of the recommendations from 
Moldova’s  second  Universal  Periodic  Review,  which 
took place in November 2016.
The Republic of Moldova reaffirms its support for 
the  effective  and  efficient  functioning  of  the  Human 
Rights Council and will continue to support initiatives 
aimed  at  strengthening  it  further,  including  efforts 
seeking  to  improve  the  Council’s  working  methods. 
Only  by  remaining  fit  for  purpose  will  the  Council 
retain its relevance.
profound  societal  transformations,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova wishes to bring to the work of the Council our 
unique perspective on efforts to promote human rights, 
in  particular  in  societies  emerging  from  conflict  or 
in transition.
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  welcome  both  the 
appointment by the Secretary-General of Ms. Michelle 
Bachelet  as  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  and  her  recent  first  engagement  with 
the  Members  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  Third 
Committee. The support that her Office provides to the 
work of the Human Rights Council is instrumental to its 
effective functioning, and we express our openness to 
cooperating  with  the  High  Commissioner  in  fulfilling 
her very important mandate.
Ms. Wessel (Norway): Norway thanks the President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  his  presentation  of 
the report of the Council (A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1). 
The  report  invites  us  to  reflect  on  the  functioning  of 
that body.
Over the past year, we took important decisions in 
Geneva.  Norway  is  particularly  pleased  that  the  new 
initiative  on  the  contribution  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  to  the  prevention  of  human  rights  violations 
was adopted in July with strong cross-regional support. 
In  our  view,  preventing  human  rights  violations  is 
paramount  as  we  seek  to  promote  peace,  stability 
and development.
The  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Declaration  on 
Human Rights Defenders provides us with an important 
opportunity to celebrate the bravery of all human rights 
defenders and to take collective action to enhance their 
protection. The High Commissioner for Human Rights 
highlighted, during the World Human Rights Defenders 
Summit in Paris this week, that human rights defenders 
are a key asset in enhancing the preventive work of the 
United Nations, as their reports provide early warning 
of  impending  crises,  help  us  to  understand  the  root 
causes  of  conflict  and  contribute  to  work  aimed  at 
resolving  and  preventing  outbreaks  thereof.  Norway 
is  looking  forward  to  celebrating  the  Declaration  on 
Human Rights Defenders during the high-level plenary 
meeting dedicated to that topic to be held in New York 
in December.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  has  put  forward  its 
candidature for the Human Rights Council term 2020-
2022 at the elections to be held in 2019. As a country 
that has already served on the Council and gone through 
Norway thinks that it is important to keep in mind 
the strengths of the Human Rights Council, especially 
now  when  we  are  discussing  efficiency  measures.  We 
should focus on what works well, but at the same time 
26/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
find  common  ground  on  how  we  can  strengthen  the 
work of the Council. We firmly believe that we can reach 
consensus through dialogue and cooperation. We take 
this  opportunity  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  Ambassador  Šuc,  for  his  professional 
and transparent leadership of the discussions in Geneva, 
and we will continue to support that process.
During  2018, 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
demonstrated  that  it  has  strong  tools  in  its  toolbox 
and that members of the Council are not shying away 
from using them. We welcome the fact that some of the 
reports mandated in Human Rights Council resolutions 
have  also  been  presented  to  the  Security  Council 
when relevant.
As a consistent partner and friend of an independent 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights, 
Norway  recently  signed  a  four-year  financial  support 
agreement  with  the  High  Commissioner’s  Office.  We 
believe  that  predictability  and  strategic  planning  are 
essential when working to support the Office’s efforts 
to promote and protect human rights for all.
At  a  time  when  human  rights  are  being  violated 
and  contested,  we  must  strengthen  the  human  rights 
pillar of the United Nations and the Office of the High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We  are  more  likely 
to achieve sustainable development and security when 
human rights are respected.
Mr. Suan (Myanmar): I would like to congratulate 
the President of the Human Rights Council, Ambassador 
Vojislav Šuc, for his hard work and able leadership.
The  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its 
addendum  (A/73/53  and  A/73/53/Add.1),  submitted 
under  agenda  item  69,  contains  three  resolutions 
relating to Myanmar. None of those resolutions enjoyed 
consensus  during  their  adoption  at  the  respective 
session.  Myanmar  has  categorically  rejected  the  three 
resolutions  because  they  are  politically  motivated, 
intrusive  and  sovereignty-infringing.  They  also  lack 
impartiality and objectivity. One sponsor of one of those 
resolutions even stated in its explanation of vote before 
the voting in the Council that the establishment of the 
independent mechanism did not fall within the mandate 
of the Council as stipulated in the institution-building 
package  and 
that 
mechanism, the Council was acting ultra vires.
to  establish 
that, 
in  deciding 
Myanmar,  together  with  the  States  members  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  upholds  the  principled 
position  of  opposing  any  country-specific  resolution. 
Such  resolutions  are  not  conducive  to  meaningful 
dialogue  and  give  rise  to  polarization,  division  and 
even confrontation.
Many  of  us  in  this  Hall  have  frequently  stressed 
that  a  constructive  approach  and  genuine  cooperation 
are very important for the promotion and protection of 
human  rights.  At  this  important  juncture  of  efforts  to 
improve  the  efficiency  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
objectivity and impartiality are essential principles for 
all  of  us  to  adhere  to,  especially  when  it  comes  to  an 
issue that could have a far-reaching impact on a Member 
State’s sovereignty and dignity.
The  Government  of  Myanmar  has  rejected  the 
Human Rights Council’s establishment of a fact-finding 
mission on Myanmar since the beginning, because its 
composition  and  mandate  raise  serious  concerns.  It 
would  lack  impartiality  and  hinder  the  Government’s 
own efforts to find long-term solutions to the situation 
in Rakhine state. The sincerity and ethics of the fact-
finding mission are questionable, as can be seen by its 
hasty issuance of a report in time for a Security Council 
meeting  on  Myanmar  and  its  distribution  in  a  United 
Nations  conference  room  of  pamphlets  containing 
elements of hatred against a sovereign Member State.
On our position regarding the Special Rapporteur 
on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, we have 
all along extended cooperation to the successive Special 
Rapporteurs  on  Myanmar,  in  keeping  with  our  policy 
to  cooperate  with  the  United  Nations.  Despite  such 
continuous cooperation and accommodation, Myanmar 
is still being treated unfairly and discriminated against 
under the pretext of human rights.
Myanmar  is  committed  to  continuing  to  work 
together  with  the  mandate  of  the  Special  Rapporteur. 
However, the people of Myanmar consider that it would 
no  longer  be  productive  to  continue  cooperation  with 
the  current  Special  Rapporteur  because  of  her  lack 
of  objectivity  and  non-compliance  with  the  code  of 
conduct.  As  such,  we  have  requested  that  the  Human 
Rights Council replace her. We regret that our request 
has, to date, fallen on deaf ears.
Since  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  is  a 
cornerstone  of  Myanmar’s  foreign  policy,  Myanmar 
will  continue  to  extend  cooperation  to  the  relevant 
United Nations mechanisms for the benefit of people of 
Myanmar. With that in mind, Myanmar has facilitated, 
18-35714
27/29
A/73/PV.31 
02/11/2018
to date, three visits of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-
General since she assumed her duties in June 2018.
The  Government  of  Myanmar  has  resolutely 
rejected  the  International  Criminal  Court’s  ruling  of 
6  September  2018  in  connection  with  Rakhine  state. 
Our position there is clear: Myanmar is not a party to 
the Rome Statute, and the International Criminal Court 
(ICC)  has  no  jurisdiction  over  Myanmar  whatsoever. 
The ICC’s decision was made on dubious legal grounds 
and  concerned  a  situation  where  domestic  remedies 
have not yet been exhausted.
The Government of Myanmar takes every allegation 
of human rights violations seriously. The Government of 
Myanmar has established an Independent Commission 
of Enquiry comprising two international diplomats and 
two  national  eminent  persons.  The  Commission  will 
investigate  all  allegations  of  human  rights  violations 
and  related  issues  following  the  terrorist  attacks  of 
9  October  2016  and  25  August  2017  by  the  Arakan 
Rohingya  Salvation  Army  in  Rakhine  state  with  a 
view to seeking accountability and reconciliation. The 
Commission will discharge its mandate in accordance 
with  the  principles  of  independence,  impartiality  and 
objectivity, and will submit its report within one year. 
We are willing and able to deal with the accountability 
issues  regarding  any  alleged  human  rights  violations 
where there is sufficient evidence. We need, however, 
to give time and space to the Commission of Enquiry.
Addressing 
the 
issues 
in  Rakhine  state 
is 
a  fundamental  part  of  building  peace,  national 
reconciliation,  security  and  good  governance 
in 
Myanmar. The Government of Myanmar is, as a matter 
of  high  priority,  preparing  the  necessary  conditions 
conducive to the safe, voluntary and dignified return of 
the people who have fled to Bangladesh. In accordance 
with  the  bilateral  agreements  and  arrangements  with 
Bangladesh, Myanmar is ready to receive the first batch 
of  verified  returnees.  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
of  the  meeting  of  the  joint  working  group established 
by Myanmar and Bangladesh, held in Dhaka this week, 
the repatriation will begin next month. We welcome the 
agreement. We are also working with the Office of the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  to  assist  the 
speedy  and  efficient  resettlement  and  rehabilitation 
of returnees.
The  challenges  facing  Myanmar  are  complex  and 
multifaceted.  While  striving  tirelessly  to  solve  the 
issue in Rakhine, the Government is trying to end the 
armed conflicts that have ravaged the country since its 
independence  in  1948  and  bring  about  peace  with  a 
large number of ethnic armed groups. The Government 
is  persisting  in  its  efforts  with  respect  to  the  peace 
process and national reconciliation.
The greatest strength of a democratic transition is 
the unity, determination and active participation of the 
people under the leadership of State Counsellor Aung 
San Suu Kyi. We have strong faith in the strength of our 
national resilience as we face the formidable challenges 
that we are encountering today. We are resolute in our 
determination  to  fulfil  the  ultimate  aspirations  of  the 
people  to  build  a  democratic  federal  union,  in  which 
justice,  freedom  and  equal  opportunity  for  all  its 
citizens  are  guaranteed.  The  international  community 
can  best  assist  Myanmar  in  realizing  its  democratic 
nation-building  by  making  constructive  contributions 
towards Myanmar’s endeavours based on understanding 
and mutual respect.
The resolutions and decision on Myanmar contained 
in  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (Council 
resolutions  S-27/1,  37/32  and  29/21  and  decision 
36/115) are not conducive to meaningful dialogue, but 
give rise only to polarization, and even confrontation. 
Their focus on confrontation and retribution will only 
be  counterproductive.  Against  that  backdrop,  we  will 
continue  to  categorically  reject  those  resolutions  and 
that decision.
Mr.  Kuzmenkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): Recent years have witnessed a steady uptick 
in  confrontation  and  politicization  in  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  which  impedes  the  thorough 
and  constructive  discussion  of  human  rights  issues. 
We are alarmed at the ongoing practice on the part of a 
number of States, or groups of the States, to attempt to 
exploit human rights as a weapon for applying political 
pressure  and  imposing  their  values  systems,  without 
taking into account the national, historic, economic and 
cultural specificities of States.
We  note  the  contrived  saturation  of  the  Council’s 
agenda with country-specific issues. At the same time, 
the  designation  of  so-called  delinquent  countries  is 
arbitrary  and  politically  motivated.  The  human  rights 
situation in a given country may indeed be a legitimate 
cause  for  concern  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community.  However,  we 
countenance 
interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  States  and 
cannot 
28/29 
18-35714
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.31
pressure being brought to bear under a human rights-
related  pretext.  That  is  an  egregious  violation  of 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations. 
Selective  criticism  and  labelling  discredit  the  United 
Nations Human Rights Council. That kind of practice 
makes  it  appear  that  the  United  human  rights  system 
lacks credibility and that cooperation with that system 
is pointless. As a consequence, United Nations human 
rights initiatives become ineffective and less relevant.
At  present,  we  do  not  see  genuine  dialogue  and 
cooperation  within  the  Council,  and  yet  those  very 
principles should guide it. In order for the Council to be 
more effective, it should focus on the delivery of technical 
assistance  to  States,  and  that  only  with  their  explicit 
consent.  We  regret  the  persistent  attempts  to  impose 
myriad  oversight  procedures  on  States  —  procedures 
that  sometimes  duplicate  others.  Those  multiplying 
structures weigh heavily on the United Nations budget, 
and  the  results  from  that  approach  seldom  justify  the 
burden it imposes.
We  are  alarmed  at  the  entrenched  practice  of 
populating  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  agenda  with 
items  with  a  clear  political  subtext  and  that  have 
nothing to do with human rights or are at odds with the 
Council’s mandate. That is attested to by the repeated 
attempts to include wording in documents of the Human 
Rights  Council  that  can  be  exploited  as  a  pretext  for 
the  referral  of  certain  country-specific  issues  to  the 
Security Council or the International Criminal Court, 
or  for  evoking  the  so-called  responsibility  to  protect. 
That  is  a  counterproductive  approach  and  does  not 
help establish effective dialogue on the protection and 
promotion of human rights.
The  Human  Rights  Council,  with  its  present 
structure  and  rules  of  procedure,  was  created  by  all 
States Members of the United Nations. The introduction 
of  any  changes  to  its  work,  be  they  substantive  or 
procedural,  can  be  done  only  in  a  collegial  manner 
and  following  relevant,  comprehensive  international 
discussions.  By  that  we  mean  taking  into  account  the 
views of all States Members of the United Nations, not 
merely those of current members of the Council.
We reject attempts to subjectively adjust the work 
of the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms. That 
is at odds with the founding documents of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  We  are 
alarmed at the mounting proposals in Geneva regarding 
the need to introduce a number of so-called technical 
changes in the work of the Universal Periodic Review. 
At this point, when the third cycle of the review is at 
its height, that approach undermines the core principles 
of  non-discrimination,  constructive  dialogue  and 
cooperation  within  the  Council.  We  are  perturbed  by 
the proposals to leverage the forthcoming review of the 
status of the Council to be held in 2021, as set out in 
resolution 65/281, with a view to discussing the whole 
range  of  issues  pertaining  to  its  operations  and  its 
overall role within the United Nations system.
In  that  connection,  we  cannot  support  the  plans 
of  a  number  of  regional  groups  to  fine-tune  and 
simultaneously  reinforce  in  years  to  come  the  link 
between  the  Council  and  all  of  the  bodies  at  United 
Nations Headquarters in New York, not just the General 
Assembly.  Let  us  recall  that  the  Council’s  terms  of 
reference are clearly set out in its founding resolution 
60/251  and  were  reaffirmed  in  resolution  65/281.  It 
is  important  to  bear  in  mind  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council reports to the General Assembly.
The  Russian  Federation  is  convinced  that  the 
effectiveness of the work of the Council hinges directly 
on  how  stringently  its  member  States  and  observers 
comply  with  the  established  rules  and  procedures, 
mandates  and  tasks  conferred  upon  the  Council  by 
the General Assembly. We urge States to adopt a more 
conscientious approach in their work and to clearly and 
fully uphold the principle of the rule of law, the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly and the Council and 
of course, its founding documents.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
18-35714
29/29
