United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
8th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 September 2018, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Santos Maraver 
(Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Panama.
Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Juan 
Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the Republic of 
Panama, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I extend my greetings to the President of the General 
Assembly, Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, whom 
I wish to recognize as the first Latin American woman 
to serve the United Nations in this capacity.
I  also 
for  his 
recognize  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres 
the 
Organization. To the people of Panama, I express once 
again, from this rostrum, my gratitude for having been 
given the opportunity to serve them.
renewed  commitment 
to 
As I return to the General Assembly for the seventh 
time,  I  am  drawing  to  a  close  my  chapter  as  Head  of 
State. In just a few months, I will open a new one as 
a  citizen  of  the  world,  but  one  who  is  determined  to 
continue  supporting  the  efforts  of  this  institution, 
fighting  for  peace  and  social  justice  and  following 
the example of great leaders like Nelson Mandela and 
Kofi Annan.
Over  these  years,  I  have  borne  witness  to  the 
deliberations and efforts of the United Nations aimed at 
fostering harmony in the world. Some of the leaders I 
have listened to in this Hall are no longer with us; some 
left in peace and others in violent circumstances.
We  have  achieved  ambitious  goals,  from  the 
approval  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  to 
the  commitment  to  fulfilling  them  by  2030.  Many 
challenges  remain,  such  as  achieving  peace  in  Syria. 
The theme of the present session spurs us to reflect on 
the following question: are we as leaders doing enough 
for the Organization to have a real impact on people’s 
lives?  The  answer  lies  in  the  commitment  of  those  of 
us entrusted with the leadership of our countries as we 
enter the future.
The  Organization  was  founded  on  the  conviction 
that  world  leaders  should  be  able  to  forge  a  path  to 
resolve  disputes  by  peaceful  means.  As  we  attend 
this  annual  gathering,  we  bear  the  responsibility  to 
realize that dream of peace and brotherhood. Peace is 
threatened  not  only  by  weapons  but  also  by  injustice, 
poverty, hunger, inequality and the lack of opportunity 
experienced  by  our  people.  Therefore,  as  part  of  our 
commitment in adopting the Sustainable Development 
Goals as national policy, our Government has, over the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-29871 (E)
*1829871*
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
past four years, made steady progress towards attaining 
them.  We  have  rebuilt  entire  cities,  and  more  than 
100,000 Panamanian families will have new homes so 
that their children may lead a life of dignity.
Through a massive health census, we have identified 
the principal diseases affecting our citizens, allowing 
us to provide preventive health treatment.
We  are  transforming  the  Panamanian  education 
system, making it bilingual and more equitable. More 
than  6,000  Panamanian  teachers  have  been  trained 
abroad  to  teach  English  and  more  than  3,000  new 
classrooms are being built for our students. Moreover, 
we  have  strengthened  the  system  of  higher  technical 
education. I am very proud to share with the Assembly 
the  fact  that,  as  we  speak,  a  team  of  Panamanian 
instructors  is  teaching  English  to  Syrian  refugee 
children in the Za’atari camp in Jordan.
Thanks  to  record  investments,  we  are  providing 
modern  sanitation  systems  to  several  cities  across 
the  country  and  building  new  water-treatment  plants 
to  markedly  expand  access  to  drinking  water.  We 
lead  Latin  America  in  terms  of  investment  in  urban 
mobility,  with  2,000  kilometres  of  new roads,  and 22 
kilometres  of  metro  about  to  become  operational  and 
construction beginning on a further 26 kilometres. We 
have cut insecurity by 50 per cent, rescued thousands 
of young people from criminal gangs, and strengthened 
the capacities of law enforcement.
Today’s  Panama 
is  very  different  from 
the 
country  whose  leadership  I  assumed  in  2014.  Before 
all  Panamanians  and  the  entire  world,  today  I  can 
say  with  my  head  held  high  that  we  have  succeeded 
in  transforming  politics  into  public  service  and  in 
rebuilding  our  democracy  to  be  one  that  works  for 
future  generations.  I  have  governed  my  country  in 
peace,  using  dialogue  and  consensus,  invoking  the 
power  of  the  State  only  to  protect  the  people,  not  to 
thwart them. I have held true to the words I spoke on 
my  first  day  in  office  by  fighting  corruption  head  on 
and ensuring that no one is above the law.
Many challenges remain ahead. The judicial system 
still faces significant challenges to ensure that there is 
no  impunity.  We  have  worked  tirelessly  to  strengthen 
our institutions and consolidate our young democracy, 
respecting and supporting the elected authorities from 
all political parties and their communities, and boosting 
their economic capacities.
Next year, Panama will hold its seventh democratic 
elections,  with  an  electoral  body  that  has  proven  an 
effective guarantor of transparent democracy. Thanks 
to  the  far-reaching  electoral  reforms  that  we  have 
pursued, the forthcoming campaign will be the fairest, 
shortest  and  most  transparent  in  our  history.  For  the 
first time, all responsibility for the financing of media 
campaigns will lie with the State.
We continue to strengthen our status as a connected 
country,  with  excellent  aviation  links,  strengthened 
by  a  new  airport;  maritime  connectivity,  enhanced 
by  the  expanded  Canal  and  new  ports;  and  human 
connectivity,  whereby  our  geographical  position  and 
facilities  such  as  a  new  convention  centre  and  cruise 
port  will  play  an  important  role.  We  have  a  logistics 
and  financial  platform  at  the  service  of  global  trade, 
and we defend and protect it so as to ensure that it is not 
used for illicit activities. We have seen the successful 
expansion  of  the  Canal,  which  reflects  the  principles 
of  our  country:  our  ability  to  unite  the  world,  our 
permanent neutrality and our openness to global trade. 
This  interoceanic  link  was  restored  to  the  people  of 
Panama  thanks  to  the  Panama  Canal  treaties  and  the 
courageous decision of a simple human being, former 
President  of  the  United  States  Jimmy  Carter,  whose 
commitment,  I  publicly  acknowledge  today,  changed 
the course of our nation’s history.
While we have experienced difficult situations that 
have affected our national image, we have been able to 
move  on  based  on  the  principle  that  justice  becomes 
unjust when it ceases to protect the innocent. We have 
demonstrated  to  the  world  that  our  country  and  its 
economy  have  succeeded  thanks  solely  to  the  honest 
work of our people. Through our efforts in recent years 
to attain the Sustainable Development Goals, we have 
lifted more than 150,000 Panamanians out of poverty, 
which means a reduction of 5 percentage points, from 25 
to 20 per cent, and maintained average annual economic 
growth of 5 per cent. We are strengthening the social 
protection system for the elderly and students. We have 
made  major  improvements  to  hospital  infrastructure, 
education, school attendance, access to drinking water, 
education and housing.
We  have  also  extended  a  dignified  welcome  to 
tens of thousands of citizens from other countries who 
have come to our land seeking a better future for their 
families.  We  witnessed  the  migratory  crisis  whereby 
more  than  100,000  Haitians  left  for  Brazil  following 
the  big  earthquake  in  January  2010.  Once  in  Brazil, 
2/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
they were forced to migrate yet again as a result of the 
economic crisis there. Many lives were lost along the 
way.  I  recognize  the  leadership  displayed  by  Chile  in 
solving this human tragedy by opening its doors.
I see the tragedy of migration in the face of Juan, a 
7-year-old African boy who now lives alone in Panama 
because  he  lost  his  mother  as  they  walked  across  the 
mountains between Panama and Colombia. That child 
forged  in  the  depths  of  my  heart  a  commitment  that 
countries  must  better  manage  migratory  flows,  in  a 
more  organized  manner,  while  respecting  the  rights 
of  all  human  beings  to  seek  better  living  conditions. 
Thousands of migrants from other continents cross our 
border  with  Colombia  through  the  dangerous  Darién 
jungle, risking their lives in the hope of realizing their 
dreams.  The  lessons  learned  from  these  migratory 
crises compel us to call vigorously once again on the 
Government of Venezuela to restore political dialogue 
and  a  peaceful  society  based  on  democracy,  so  as  to 
avoid  further  mass  migration  and  the  humanitarian 
crisis of Venezuelans seeking to meet their basic needs.
Such  migratory  flows  can  be  stemmed  only  by 
eliminating  the  reasons  for  which  citizens  leave  their 
countries, risking their safety and that of their families. 
That  represents  a  significant  challenge  for  the  United 
Nations.  We  actively  participated  in  the  development 
of  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration,  to  be  adopted  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations this year, with the aim of contributing, 
based on our experience, to the global framework for 
tackling such crises. Our countries bear a responsibility 
to  develop  policies  to  manage  migratory  flows  in  an 
orderly manner with respect for human dignity. In the 
coming  days,  Panama  will  announce  humanitarian 
measures to support the Venezuelan families residing 
in our country.
Panama is a great melting pot, comprising citizens 
from the world over who came and made a new home 
in our beautiful land. We have learned to live in peace, 
respecting  all  religious  beliefs,  political  ideologies 
and  philosophies.  In  this  age  of  communication  and 
social  networks,  there  is  no  room  for  discrimination 
of  any  kind.  We  are  all  citizens  of  this  planet.  This 
is  our  home.  Reported  violations  of  the  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  of  the  brotherly  people  of 
Nicaragua  risk  triggering  yet  another  migratory  flow 
in  Central  America.  I  call  once  again  on  Nicaragua’s 
Government  and  civil-society  actors  to  restore  peace 
through political dialogue.
In  2015,  Panama  served  as  host  for  the  historic 
rapprochement between Cuba and the United States. I 
take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  the  call  for  a  return 
to  that  path  and  for  recognition  of  the  steps  taken  by 
the  Government  of  Cuba  to  open  its  economy  for  the 
benefit the Cuban people and the island’s economic and 
social development.
I  wish  to  stress  that,  although  our  continent  is  at 
peace,  the  political  crisis  in  Venezuela,  rising  drug 
production  in  Colombia,  the  corruption  affecting  so 
many economies in the region and the tense situation 
in  Nicaragua  are  challenges  calling  for  the  region’s 
political  leaders  to  redouble  their  efforts  to  seek 
compromises to restore peace to those societies.
In the fight against drug trafficking, Panama will 
refocus its strategy to go beyond drug interdiction and 
criminal  arrests  to  rebuild  communities  and  support 
people in cutting ties with illegal groups and living as 
loyal citizens of the State.
We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  be  among  the 
leading  nations  that  work  together  with  multilateral 
organizations  for  a  better  world.  In  that  regard,  in 
November  we  will  inaugurate,  in  the  presence  of  the 
Foreign Ministers of Central America and the Caribbean, 
the  Regional  Logistics  Centre  for  Humanitarian 
Assistance.  Panama  is  putting  its  connectivity  at  the 
service of the region to respond to natural disasters and 
emergencies across the continent.
While respecting different systems of government, 
I believe that politics in future will be not only about 
how to obtain power but also how to use it for the good 
of  the  people.  Based  on  our  firm  belief  in  the  need 
to  build  a  fairer  and  more  peaceful  world,  Panama  is 
working to broaden its bilateral relations with countries 
of  South-East  Asia,  the  Middle  East  and  Africa,  and 
with Australia and China, as a means of getting closer 
to  the  world  and  of  fulfilling  our  role  as  a  builder  of 
bridges. 
Over  the  past  10  years,  I  have  had  opportunities 
to visit more than 40 countries and become acquainted 
at  first  hand  with  best  practices,  technology  and 
cooperation  programmes,  which  we  have  been 
able  to  use  in  my  country.  Such  is  the  nature  of 
diplomacy — using our abilities to help, and not destroy, 
one another. Accordingly, we are developing a monorail 
with Japanese technology, a subway with French trains, 
technical  higher  education  based  on  the  Singaporean 
model  and  electric  power  plants  fuelled  by  natural 
18-29871
3/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
gas with North American technology. In pursuing our 
vocation to be a bridge linking the world, Panama will 
host World Youth Day in January 2019, to be attended 
by  Pope  Francis,  which  will  bring  together  hundreds 
of thousands of young people from 192 countries and 
will be focused on the shared goal of achieving peace 
to  build  a  better  world  and  overcome  cultural  and 
religious barriers.
I  bid  farewell  to  the  General  Assembly  with  a 
peaceful  conscience,  knowing  that  I  have  used  the 
political power bestowed upon me by the people solely 
for  their  benefit,  while  unwaveringly  leading  the 
struggle. Panama’s success benefits not only Panama’s 
people, but everyone. I wish to express today before the 
entire General Assembly and the world my commitment 
to continue working as a responsible citizen of the world, 
together with my people and all nations, to strengthen 
the United Nations system and all its bodies so that the 
citizens of our beautiful planet always remain the focus 
of our struggles and efforts.
  In  conclusion,  I  share  with  members  the  pride 
that  I  feel  in  having  contributed  to  strengthening  my 
country’s vocation as a bridge of peace, dialogue and 
social justice.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Panama for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hage Geingob, President of the 
Republic of Namibia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Namibia.
into 
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Namibia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Hage Geingob, President of 
the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Geingob: 
to  congratulate 
Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session.
I  wish 
On  21  July,  the  people  of  Namibia  and  our 
friends around the world laid to rest our first Foreign 
Minister,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab.  He  represented  our 
liberation  movement,  the  South  West  Africa  People’s 
Organization,  at  the  United  Nations  for  more  than  15 
years. Under his presidency at the fifty-fourth session 
of the General Assembly, we adopted the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  the  precursor  to  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  The  family  of  Mr.  Gurirab, 
the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia have been deeply touched by the outpouring 
of condolences and sympathies following his death. We 
are deeply appreciative of the memorial service held in 
his honour here at Headquarters.
Two months ago, I travelled to Nigeria to bury former 
Under-Secretary-General  and  Executive  Secretary  of 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  Mr.  Adebayo 
Adedeji, who stood by our side during our liberation. 
Two  weeks  ago,  I  travelled  to  Accra  for  the  burial  of 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the  seventh  Secretary-General  of 
the Organization — a son of Africa whose flame was 
extinguished but whose light will shine on throughout 
the ages. A few days ago, in this very Hall, we gathered 
to pay tribute to that revered personality and architect 
of peace. He was a man of great stature who dedicated 
his entire adult life to the pursuit of global peace and 
security. May the souls of those distinguished sons of 
Africa and of the United Nations rest in eternal peace.
Following  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  and  the  old 
bipolar  dispensation,  the  world  has  slowly  drifted 
ever  more  worryingly  towards  unilateral  action.  That 
development goes against one of the fundamental tenets 
of democracy upon which the Organization was built. It 
is for that reason that we must embrace multilateralism 
with greater urgency to counter unilateral action. It is 
also for the same reason that we fully concur with the 
Secretary-General’s  sentiments,  as  expressed  in  his 
statement in paragraph 1 of his report on the work of 
the Organization (A/73/1), that,
“As  today’s  problems  grow  ever  more  global, 
multilateralism is more important than ever.”
The  Republic  of  Namibia  was  founded  on  the 
principles  of  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  justice. 
The  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  enshrined  in 
4/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
that 
our Constitution include virtually all of the rights and 
freedoms  recognized  in  international  human  rights 
instruments.  However,  those  instruments  in  and  of 
themselves are not sufficient to bring about sustainable 
development.  Namibia  recognizes 
there  are 
existing  and  emerging  threats  and  challenges  that 
continue  to  frustrate  individual  and  collective  efforts 
to achieve greater socioeconomic progress. To that end, 
Namibia has embraced sustainable development and is 
fully  committed  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  its  principles,  goals,  targets  and 
indicators. As a matter of fact, Namibia has integrated 
all 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their 
targets into its national development plans. As a dry and 
arid country, often affected by seasonal droughts and 
floods,  we  have  stepped  up  our  efforts  to  implement 
the  SDGs  in  critical  areas  such  as  energy,  water  and 
terrestrial ecosystems. In that regard, Namibia wishes 
to  benefit  from  the  assistance  to  be  provided  by  the 
Technology  Bank  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
established in Istanbul on 4 June, to identify and locate 
drought and flood areas in a timely manner.
Although  Namibia  has  witnessed 
sustained 
economic  growth  over  many  of  the  past  10  years, 
unemployment remains persistently high. Nevertheless, 
Namibia  has  seen  one  of  the  most  rapid  decreases  in 
poverty levels in our region over the past 10 years, from 
28.8 per cent to 17.4 per cent. I am also happy to inform 
the Assembly that life expectancy in Namibia has risen 
from 58 to 65 years of age.
inequality 
remains  a 
challenge,  as  reflected  in  the  skewed  ownership  of 
land,  whereby  white  Namibians  own  70  per  cent  of 
all  agricultural  land.  As  part  of  its  efforts  to  create 
conditions favourable to fighting poverty and maintain 
peace and stability, Namibia will hold its second national 
land  conference  during  the  first  week  of  October.  In 
preparation  for  the  conference,  the  Government  has 
conducted consultations in all of our 14 regions so as to 
ensure an inclusive process. We believe in consultations. 
If  diplomacy  fails,  people  go  to  war.  That  is  why  we 
are  pursuing  an  inclusive  consultative  process,  with 
the full knowledge that inclusivity spells harmony and 
exclusivity spells conflict. We have made a concerted 
effort to include as many stakeholders as possible and 
to ensure that everything will be done within the ambit 
of our laws. Accordingly, we call on our development 
partners  to  support  the  outcome  of  the  conference  so 
However, 
in  Namibia 
that  they  can  continue  assisting  us  in  the  process  of 
socioeconomic transformation.
I  have  stated  before  that  Namibia’s  classification 
as an upper-middle-income nation fails to consider the 
skewed  distribution  of  income.  That  status  prevents 
us from accessing official development assistance and 
affordable, concessional finance. The situation has the 
potential  to  jeopardize  efforts  in  Namibia  and  other 
developing countries to fully achieve the 2030 Agenda.
Communicable diseases also threaten to jeopardize 
our reaching the 2030 Agenda Goals. For that reason, 
Namibia endorses the call to end endemic tuberculosis 
and  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  join  the  world  in 
working  to  achieve  that  goal.  With  a  population  of 
approximately  2.5  million  people,  Namibia  ranks  as 
the  ninth  most  tuberculosis-affected  country  in  the 
world,  which  is  one  of  the  top  three  causes  leading 
to  hospitalization.  The  Government  of  Namibia  has 
demonstrated 
that 
disease by including related targets in its fifth national 
development  plan,  as  well  as  by  ensuring  that  70  per 
cent of available funding for tuberculosis comes from 
domestic resources.
its  commitment 
to  addressing 
I  should  caution  that  inadequate  human  and 
financial  resources,  high  levels  of  poverty  and  the 
lack  of  public-health  services  in  rural  areas  remain  a 
concern.  As  the  Chairperson  of  the  Southern  African 
(SADC),  our  country 
Development  Community 
reaffirms 
its  commitment 
to 
the  African  Union 
Declaration  on  Malaria,  HIV/AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
other Related Infectious Diseases, working within the 
Harmonized  Surveillance  Framework  for  HIV  and 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in the SADC Region, 
and will join the international community in the fight 
against tuberculosis.
I congratulate the Secretary-General for launching 
the  United  Nations  Global  Youth  Strategy.  Africa 
has  the  fastest-growing  youth  population.  In  my 
capacity  as  Chairperson  of  SADC,  I  wish  to  inform 
the  Assembly  that  the  region  has  adopted  a  strategy 
to  achieve  industrialization  by  2063.  In  that  regard, 
the thirty-eighth SADC Summit, held in Windhoek in 
August,  adopted  the  theme  “Promoting  infrastructure 
development  and  youth  empowerment  for  sustainable 
development”.  We  are  convinced  that  the  youth  of 
the SADC region, and of the world in general, are the 
future custodians of our social, political, economic and 
governance infrastructure. As such, young people need 
18-29871
5/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
job  certainty,  wherein 
to be provided with the requisite skills and training and 
be economically empowered through entrepreneurship 
to  drive  development  towards  inclusive  growth  and 
shared prosperity. The youth of the SADC region, like 
their  counterparts  in  the  rest  of  the  world,  yearn  for 
better prospects. They yearn for a future of opportunity 
and 
the  fourth  Industrial 
Revolution  will  represent  opportunities,  not  threats. 
A  future  characterized  by  the  rapid  advancement  of 
technology,  advanced  robotics,  artificial  intelligence 
and mechanization should present more opportunities, 
rather than problems, for our youth and for humankind 
in general. The onus is on us to mitigate the potential 
problems  that  might  accompany  those  technologies 
and  to  understand  how  they  can  be  used  to  enable 
our youth to become drivers of economic growth and 
industrial development.
Let  me  emphasize  that  excluding  women  from 
certain spheres of life is to waste skills and expertise that 
could otherwise contribute to sustainable development. 
In that context, we applaud the Secretary-General for 
exercising  leadership  and  for  reaching  gender  parity 
in  the  Secretariat  among  senior  management  and 
resident  coordinators.  Namibia  is  fully  committed  to 
implementing gender equality, which is evident in the 
important  role  that  women  play  in  our  politics.  The 
late  former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  was  right 
when he said at the Conference on African Women and 
Economic Development in Addis Ababa in April 1998,
“Gender equality is more than a goal in itself. It is a 
precondition for meeting the challenge of reducing 
poverty,  promoting  sustainable  development  and 
building good governance”.
The  world  should  do  more  to  make  gender  equality 
a reality.
While we commend the Secretary-General on his 
successful reform initiatives, I remind the Assembly of 
the historic commitment that we all made at the 2005 
World Summit
“to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  with  a  view 
to  enhancing  its  authority  and  efficiency  [and] 
address effectively ... the full range of challenges 
of our time” (resolution 60/1, para. 146).
It  is  time  to  ensure  that  we  live  up  to  that  pledge.  In 
that regard, it is pertinent to demonstrate the political 
will  of  the  United  Nations  membership  with  regard 
to  redressing  Africa’s  exclusion  from  the  Security 
Council.  The  world  has  moved  on,  and  the  old  and 
unjust  order  cannot  persist.  Africa  and  its  1.2  billion 
inhabitants can no longer be excluded from assuming 
their place on that primary decision-making body.
For  Africa  and  the  rest  of  the  developing  world, 
peace  is  the  main  foundation  for  and  guarantor  of  
sustainable  economic  growth  and  development.  As 
leaders, together with the citizenry of the great African 
continent, we need to understand that it is our collective 
responsibility to maintain peace so as to enable Africa 
to  unlock  its  full  potential.  Every  step  that  advances 
a  peaceful  Africa  should  be  welcomed.  In  that  vein, 
we commend His Excellency Mr. Abiy Ahmed, Prime 
Minister of Ethiopia, and his Eritrean counterpart, His 
Excellency  President  Isaias  Afwerki,  for  signing  an 
agreement to end the war between their two countries 
and  for  the  subsequent  resumption  of  diplomatic  and 
trade ties. I am confident that that spirit of unity, peace 
and  security,  as  embodied  in  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda  2063,  will  spread  throughout  the  Horn  of 
Africa and all areas afflicted by conflict in Africa.
During 
fight 
that  meets 
the  darkest  days  of  our 
Namibia  is  a  child  of  international  solidarity,  in 
whose birth the United Nations served as midwife. We 
relied  on  the  solidarity  of  the  nations  of  the  world  to 
support us in our quest to achieve our self-determination. 
In  that  connection,  we  call  for  the  implementation  of 
the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and  decisions 
on  the  Western  Sahara,  which  will  lead  to  a  positive, 
peaceful  and  permanent  solution 
the 
aspirations  and  will  of  the  people  of  that  area.  In  the 
same  vein,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  people  of 
the  occupied  territory  of  Palestine  in  their  pursuit  of 
self-determination, justice, freedom and independence.
for 
independence, the Government and the people of Cuba 
joined Angola in coming to our aid and shedding their 
blood for our liberation, which led to the decisive battle 
of  Cuito  Cuanavale  and  the  resulting  negotiations, 
elections and, eventually, freedom. It is in that spirit of 
profound kinship that we share with the Cuban people 
that  we  renew  our  call  for  lifting  the  decades-old, 
outdated, ineffective and counterproductive economic 
and financial embargo on Cuba. It is now time for all 
of  us  to  demonstrate  the  leadership  required  to  bring 
prosperity  and  peace  to  all  of  the  world’s  people. 
It  is  time  to  lead  in  the  spirit  of  peace,  equality  and 
sustainability.  It  is  time  to  make  the  United  Nations 
relevant to all of the world’s people. Let us seize this 
unique moment in history.
6/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Namibia for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Namibia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, 
President of the Republic of Ghana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Ghana.
Mr.  Nana  Addo  Dankwa  Akufo-Addo,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Nana 
Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President of the Republic 
of Ghana, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Akufo-Addo: Ghana salutes the historic 
election  of  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  to 
preside over the General Assembly at its seventy-third 
session  as  the  first  female  Latin  American  President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  congratulates  her  most 
heartily.  Her  election  reinforces  our  common  belief 
that  gender  equality  must  be  a  central  feature  of  the 
global agenda.
Thirteen  days  ago,  we  laid  to  rest  in  his  home 
soil  of  Ghana  our  brother  Kofi  Annan,  the  seventh 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
first  from  sub-Saharan  Africa  to  occupy  that  exalted 
position. On behalf of the Government and the people 
of  Ghana,  I  wish  to  extend  our  heartfelt  gratitude  to 
the  Secretariat,  led  by  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency Mr. António Guterres, and the whole world 
community for the outpouring of grief and condolences 
that we received on the passing of Kofi Annan. We were 
deeply touched that so many world leaders and people 
took the trouble to come to Accra to bid him farewell. 
Kofi  Annan’s  passionate  and  profound  belief  in  the 
United Nations and his certainty that a better organized 
and  stronger  United  Nations  would  make  the  world  a 
better place is an ideal that should not be allowed to die.
Today we continue to be faced with the stark reality 
that resolutions, norms and any number of votes in the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  mean 
nothing  without  the  political  will  of  the  international 
community to enforce them. We continue to try to work 
out what the role of the Organization should be. Should 
it be just a club of nation States that exists to look after 
their own interests? What of its formation by “we the 
peoples”, as declared in its founding document? Does 
the  theme  that  we  have  chosen  for  this  session  of  the 
Assembly have any relevance in real life? And do we 
want to make the United Nations relevant to all people? 
Do  we  want  an  Organization  that  ensures  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies, or should it remain a place where resolutions 
are adopted but ignored with impunity?
When some of the nations of the world gathered in 
San  Francisco  73  years  ago  and  signed  the  landmark 
document  that  created  the  Organization,  the  world 
was very different from what we have today. I am not 
referring only to the difference in the number of States 
in  the  room  on  that  occasion  or  the  difference  in  the 
mode of travel that brought the leaders to that meeting, 
as opposed to the jet planes that brought us all to New 
York this week. I am not referring either to the tweets by 
which we communicate now as opposed to the elegant 
handwriting that they employed in 1945. I am referring 
to  the  theme  that  we  have  chosen  for  this  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  and  I  wonder  if  it  would  have 
been  comprehensible  to  that  group  in  San  Francisco. 
It is a different world in which we currently live, and 
we  should  accept  the  fact  that  the  Organization  must 
change to suit contemporary needs.
Ten years ago, as the General Assembly was starting 
its proceedings, the world was plunged into a financial 
crisis.  The  first  scenes  of  that  crisis  were  played  out 
on  a  street  not  far  from  where  we  are  gathered,  but 
the  consequences  were  felt,  and  continue  to  be  felt, 
around the world in small countries like Ghana. Some 
say  that  upheaval  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  change  in 
politics  and  outlook  throughout  the  world.  Today,  as 
we speak, a trade war is being stoked between the two 
largest  economies  of  the  world.  The  consequences 
will affect those who have had no say, including small 
countries  like  Ghana.  Those  events  provide  proof,  if 
any were needed, that ours is an interdependent world. 
We in Ghana, and people in other parts of the African 
continent, are determined to pull our countries out of 
poverty  and  into  prosperity.  We  do  not  believe  that  a 
nation needs to remain poor or become poor for others 
to  become  prosperous.  We  believe  that  there  is  room 
18-29871
7/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
and that there are enough resources on the planet for us 
all to be prosperous. But it does mean that the rules and 
regulations that we fashion to guide our dealings with 
each other have to be respected by all of us.
From  the  environment  to  trading  rules,  we  have 
to  accept  that  there  cannot  be  a  different  set  of  rules 
for  different  countries.  The  United  Nations  provides 
the best vehicle to date for all nations to address their 
aspirations and challenges. Ghana has always conveyed 
its belief in the United Nations and sought to contribute 
its share to efforts to make the Organization successful. 
We have embraced the Sustainable Development Goals, 
and  we  have  integrated  the  17  ambitious  Goals  into 
our  national  vision  and  budget.  We  intend  for  Ghana 
to take its turn in July 2019 and present its voluntary 
national review during the High-level Political Forum 
of the Economic and Social Council. We will share our 
successes and challenges, as well as opportunities for 
new and continuing partnerships.
It  is  important  to  reiterate  that  advocating  for  a 
world order in which all countries sign up to obey the 
rules does not mean that we insist on uniformity. We 
take pride in what distinguishes us as Africans and as 
Ghanaians. Fifty-five per cent of the work of the Security 
Council last year had to do with Africa. Unfortunately, 
that invariably meant peacekeeping and poverty-related 
issues. We no longer want to be the place that requires 
the intervention of peacekeepers and poverty-fighting 
non-governmental organizations, no matter how noble 
their motives. Our regional bodies, like the Economic 
Community of West African States, and our continental 
body,  the  African  Union,  are  making  systematic 
efforts,  despite  significant  handicaps,  to  bring  peace 
and stability to the entire continent, and, sooner rather 
than later, they will succeed. We know that we must get 
our population educated and trained, and we are setting 
about that. We must address our infrastructural deficit.
The traditional methods for tackling that problem 
will  not  provide  the  answer.  We  are  looking  for  new 
ways  to  resolve  it.  Ghana,  like  many  countries  in 
Africa,  is  forging  relations  with  China,  so  as  to 
make  arrangements  that  can  help  address  part  of  our 
infrastructure deficit. That is not a uniquely Ghanaian 
or African phenomenon. It has not been lost on us that 
the  developed,  rich  and  well-established  countries 
have  been  paying  regular  visits  to  China  and  seeking 
to open new economic ties and improve upon existing 
ones. It is also not lost on us that much anxiety is being 
expressed  about  the  possibility  of  a  recolonization  of 
the African continent by a new Power. We should learn 
from history. It was at the turn of the twentieth century 
that  China’s  first  railways  were  built  by  Western 
companies  and  were  financed  by  Western  loans  to  a 
nearly bankrupt Qing Dynasty, and it was under those 
circumstances that a certain strategic port called Hong 
Kong was leased for 99 years. The rest, as the saying 
goes, is history.
Today  the  former  victim  of  Western  railway 
imperialism is lending billions to countries throughout 
Africa, Asia and Europe to build not only railroads, but 
also highways, ports, power plants, other infrastructure 
and  businesses.  The  historical  echoes  are  certainly 
worrisome,  but  surely  we  must,  and  can,  learn  from 
history.  We  in  Ghana  must  build  roads,  bridges, 
railways, ports, schools, hospitals, and we must create 
jobs  to  keep  our  young  people  engaged.  It  is  obvious 
to  us  that  the  development  trajectory  on  which  we 
had been for many decades had not been working. We 
are  trying  a  different  one,  and  we  would  appreciate 
the  support  and  goodwill  of  the  world,  especially  in 
helping  to  curtail  the  huge  flow  of  illicit  funds  from 
our continent.
It  is  in  everybody’s  interests  that  we,  who  are 
counted  among  the  poor  of  the  world,  make  a  rapid 
transformation  from  poverty  to  prosperity.  We  are 
determined  in  Ghana  and,  increasingly,  in  more 
and  more  parts  of  Africa,  to  chart  our  own  paths  to 
prosperity and pay our own way in the world. We are no 
longer interested in being a burden on others. We will 
shoulder  our  own  responsibilities  and  build  societies 
and nations that will be attractive to our youth. We have 
the necessary sense of enterprise, creativity, innovation 
and hard work needed to engineer that transition, hence 
our vision of a Ghana and an Africa beyond aid.
It is equally important that the United Nations be 
reformed so as to be able to preside over the changed 
and  changing  world  to  which  we  all  aspire.  The 
powerful nations must be willing to adapt to changes to 
make our world a better place. After all, we all inhabit 
the same planet, and we all owe the same duty of care 
to ensure its survival. The African common position on 
United  Nations  reform,  as  expressed  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus, remains the most comprehensive proposal 
for  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
Security Council. It is time that the global community 
endorse it so as to create a modern United Nations fit 
for purpose in our time.
8/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
May God bless the United Nations and us all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Ghana for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Nana  Addo  Dankwa  Akufo-Addo,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the 
Republic of Estonia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Estonia.
Mrs.  Kersti  Kaljulaid,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Kersti 
Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, and to 
invite her to address the Assembly.
into 
President Kaljulaid: Ten days ago I was in Ukraine, 
picking up syringes and empty bottles in a park next to 
a kindergarten in the industrial city of Dnipro. It was 
on  the  occasion  of  the  first  World  Cleanup  Day,  the 
biggest-ever  civil-society  action  facilitated  by  digital 
technologies  and  the  will  of  millions  to  volunteer. 
Fifteen million people in 140 countries, among whom 
were many Presidents and Prime Ministers, took part 
and decided to do something for our planet. They were 
responding  to  the  outcry  of  Estonians  who  launched 
the  voluntary  clean-up  action  10  years  ago.  It  is  very 
easy just to talk about a cleaner environment or climate 
change, but if you really want to get things done, then 
very often you simply must get up and do it yourself.
In many ways, that is also the reason why Estonia 
is  running  for  a  non-permanent  seat  at  the  Security 
Council  for  the  period  2020-2021,  as  small  countries 
have  no  time  for  small  objectives.  Our  aim,  among 
others,  is  to  bring  all  things  digital  to  the  Security 
Council.  Cyberrisks  are  something  that  Estonians,  as 
citizens of a fully digitized State, understand better than 
most. We want to offer our perspective so as to ensure 
that human beings remain safe in this new world where 
cyberrelated  threats  are  combined  with  conventional 
ones.  The  vision  that  we  have  for  our  candidacy  and 
for  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole  is  based  on  three 
keywords: empathy, equality and efficiency.
First,  with  regard 
to  empathy,  however  sad 
they  are,  we  must  talk  about  our  concerns  honestly. 
Aggression  should  be  called  aggression,  war  is  war 
and  occupation  remains  occupation.  Whether  we  are 
talking  about  Africa  or  Europe,  I  am  always  deeply 
touched by the misery that war and conflict cause, as I 
am when talking with internally displaced women and 
children in occupied eastern Ukraine or with Georgian 
politicians who are told that, because of the occupation, 
their country will forever be denied full participation in 
world democratic forums that we, who are luckier than 
they,  preciously  cherish.  Estonia  stands  in  solidarity 
with  all  those  affected  by  conflict,  terrorism  and 
violent extremism. We reach out with humanitarian aid 
and  practical  assistance,  as  well  as  our  peacekeepers, 
from Africa to the Middle East. We do what we can, yet 
it feels as though it is never enough.
Ongoing  military  aggression  in  eastern  Ukraine 
continues  in  the  very  heart  of  Europe.  The  Crimean 
peninsula  remains  occupied,  as  do  parts  of  Georgia, 
and there is no resolution to the long-term and violent 
conflicts  in  Africa.  It  is  hard  to  tolerate  those  tragic 
situations.  Yet  mincing  words  to  make  ourselves  feel 
better is no solution. For those in distress, recognition of 
their true situation, together with the humble recognition 
that  we  cannot  do  much  more  than  commiserate,  is 
offering  at  least  some  hope  —  some  hope  that  one 
day things could be better; a hope that cannot feed on 
euphemisms avoiding straightforward admittance.
In July, we all reached an agreement on the global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, and I 
am really looking forward to its adoption in Marrakech 
in December. But an agreement needs implementation. 
Without  implementation,  it  is  hollow  —  as  hollow  as 
the days ahead for those not knowing where they should 
lay their head for the night or how to calm their crying, 
hungry and frightened children. We need to get up and 
just go help.
The  same  applies  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change. In order to tackle the global challenge 
of  climate  change  that  is  affecting  billions,  we  must 
implement  the  commitments  we  have  collectively 
undertaken, because the effects of climate change are 
increasingly  being  felt  all  over  the  world,  not  only  in 
the developing countries — especially by small island 
States,  where  homes,  food  and  even  clean  drinking 
18-29871
9/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
water are greatly at risk and countries are forced to jump 
through  varied  and  expensive  hoops  in  order  to  gain 
access  to  relief  funding  —  but  also  in  the  developed 
world, where people have lost their loved ones or homes 
in  European  forest  fires  or  in  hurricanes  in  America 
and the Pacific.
Yet we are still not dealing with root causes, making 
the world safe for our children by applying the proper 
and  best  available  technology  standards  to  all  energy 
production  and  use,  both  in  the  developed  and  in  the 
developing world. We should also, very simply, never 
forget to switch the light off when leaving the room or 
get an air conditioner that stops automatically when we 
open the door — do what we can when we see that we 
cannot do it yet at the global level.
We are all equals in this Hall, not only because we 
have declared so in the Charter of the United Nations, 
but also because the challenges we now face are going 
to affect each and every one of us. Equality in the face 
of global challenges is just the law of nature, which is 
much  stronger  than  our  international  law  could  ever 
be. Yet, international legal space matters, as common 
solutions demand respect of each and every one.
We see solutions in liberal thinking, but progress 
is  not  possible  through  polarization,  fragmentation  or 
tribalism. Progress is the force born out of debate and 
seeking  common  solutions.  Sovereign  equality —  the 
idea that all sovereign States are equal — is a fundamental 
tenet  of  international  law  and  relations.  The  role  of 
the  United  Nations  is  to  provide  that  equality,  as  a 
guarantor of the rules-based global system. We depend 
on each other, whether we like it or not.
And very often it is not the State or international 
organizations that get things done, but the grass-roots 
activists and non-governmental organizations that have 
a  vision  and  a  sense  of  responsibility.  A  principled 
voluntary approach can shift mountains of inefficiency, 
bad governance, neglect and lack of ideas. It can guide 
and catalyse policymaking, but not replace it.
Recent  women  movements  like  HeForShe  have 
come  a  long  way  in  countering  gender-based  and 
sexual  violence.  Gender  equality  is  at  the  very  heart 
of human rights. With that in mind, Estonia is working 
actively  in  the  Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women. 
I have gladly and humbly accepted Secretary-General 
Guterres’ invitation to co-chair the High-Level Steering 
Group for Every Woman Every Child for the next two 
years.  During  my  tenure,  I  intend  to  raise  awareness 
of the heroic efforts people are making globally, often 
working  without  any  institutional  support.  I  wish  to 
demonstrate  how  many  good  ideas  there  are  around 
the  world  —  ideas  that  have  already  been  found  and 
tried, but only on a small, scale, and that help someone, 
somewhere, waiting to be discovered and up-scaled in 
order to help as many in the world as possible. I hope to 
provide recognition, but also the dissemination of best 
practices, which are often the same thing. That is how I 
can personally get something done.
In  terms  of  efficiency  —  and  that  is  my  third 
key  word  —  nothing  is  more  important  than  truly 
effective multilateralism. Due to its inclusiveness, the 
Organization holds great legitimacy and, due to its high 
standards, it is a moral force. International law should 
be the primary yardstick of national interest. Those not 
so powerful, small States, understand that well.
On Security Council reform, we need to win more 
space for common ground. Peoples and States, both big 
and small, should feel that the Security Council acts in 
their best interests. Too often, the Council falls victim 
to  its  internal  differences  and  clumsy  procedures. 
However, it should not be rendered powerless, especially 
when mass atrocities are being committed.
We,  together  with  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and Transparency (ACT) group, have called for Security 
Council members to feel the responsibility and be held 
more accountable if they block action against breaches 
of international humanitarian law. It is telling that 117 
States  have  already  signed  the  ACT  group’s  code  of 
conduct.  Furthermore,  we  unwaveringly  support  the 
proposal  of  President  Emmanuel  Macron  of  France, 
together with Mexico, the Netherlands and other States, 
that in the face of great human suffering, the permanent 
members  should  voluntarily  refrain  from  the  use  of 
their veto.
Furthermore, with respect to efficiency, information 
and  communications  technology  can  revolutionize 
entrepreneurship,  education,  employment  in  general, 
and  even  health  care.  Digital  online  services  provide 
economic  growth,  bring  down  unnecessary  barriers 
between citizen and State, as well as between businesses 
and sectors, and transcend geographical limits. Estonia 
has  shared  its  knowledge  with  many  nations  of  the 
world and will continue to do so, in cooperation with the 
United Nations Development Programme, the African 
Union and all those interested and willing.
10/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
New 
technologies  should  always  be  seen  as 
enablers. They create equal opportunities if supported 
by proper policies. The risks related to them should not 
be ignored, also because they do not replace but rather 
enhance  most  of  our  conventional  risks.  But  well-set 
international  legal  space  should  be  able  to  deliver  for 
humankind and avoid Armageddon scenarios.
No  new  technology  can  thrive  in  a  fragmented 
world. Now more than ever, we need global free trade as 
an essential element of fostering long-term development 
and  growth.  Estonia,  as  a  small,  export-dependent 
country, is an advocate of free trade, including through 
creating better market access for developing countries 
and  improving  business  conditions  for  investments. 
Trade and economy are closely linked with security, as 
history has so often demonstrated.
We stand to protect what the developed world has 
achieved,  what  the  World  Trade  Organization  stands 
for, and what aspiring regions and bodies have set out 
to achieve — for example, freedom of trade and work 
in  Africa  through  legal  space-setting  by  the  African 
Union. We wish them speedy success, and we stand by 
them to help where we can with our own leapfrogging 
experience in digital technologies.
Empathy starts at home. If we want to care about 
others, we need to care about ourselves and about the 
people  and  environment  around  us.  Being  connected 
and dependent on each other more than ever, we simply 
cannot  afford  to  be  self-centred  and  ignorant.  We  all 
need  to  see  the  bigger  picture.  Empathy  can  easily 
be  translated  into  efficiency  if  we  really  wish  to  get 
things  done.  Words  are  important,  but  they  are  not 
sufficient if they are not followed by concrete action.
Wars  and  conflicts  continue,  global  warming  is 
speeding up and the piles of litter around us just keep 
growing.  We  all  have  equal  responsibility  to  be  more 
proactive  in  preventing  and  meeting  the  challenges 
of  our  times.  When  we  are  feeling  helpless,  it  is 
sometimes best to do the little thing we know we are 
able to do. Globally, if we all do our bit, things can only 
get better. Our globe cannot take any more free-riding; 
any more hand-wringing and saying “we cannot”; any 
more  inaction;  any  more  hiding  behind  our  current 
comforts — so let us just get up and go get things done.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Estonia for the statement 
she has just made.
Mrs.  Kersti  Kaljulaid,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by General Michel Aoun, President of the 
Lebanese Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Lebanese Republic.
into 
escorted 
General  Michel  Aoun,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic,  was 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency General 
Michel Aoun, President of the Lebanese Republic, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Aoun (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I 
would like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session  on  her  election 
and  wish  her  success  in  her  tasks.  I  also  thank  His 
Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for his efforts during 
the  previous  session  and  commend  Secretary-General 
António Guterres for his efforts, especially his reform 
project at the helm of our international Organization.
The  theme  that  the  President  has  suggested  for 
this  session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to 
all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  is 
commendable because it demonstrates that the United 
Nations understands that its present reality requires a 
serious improvement in its future role. According to its 
purposes  and  founding  principles,  the  United  Nations 
must be the global conscience that preserves balance, 
prevents  aggression,  achieves  justice  and  protects 
peace. However, we have seen that on many occasions 
the  Security  Council  has  been  unable  to  adopt  just 
and  sometimes  decisive  resolutions  pertaining  to 
certain peoples,  due to the right of veto. Some States 
refuse  to  implement  resolutions  that  they  deem  to  be 
inappropriate,  and  do  so  with  impunity,  even  if  those 
resolutions are binding and of immediate effect. I will 
cite some examples related to the suffering of our region.
Security  Council  resolution  425  (1978),  which 
called  on  Israel  to  immediately  withdraw  its  forces 
from  all  Lebanese  territories,  was  implemented  only 
after  22  years,  and  that  was  due  to  the  resistance  of 
18-29871
11/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
the  Lebanese  people.  General  Assembly  resolution 
181 (II), of 1947, concerning the partition of Palestine, 
was seen as being of a binding nature although it was 
not,  and  it  was  implemented  instantly.  Meanwhile, 
resolution  194  (III),  of  1948,  which  provided  for  the 
return of Palestinian refugees to their homeland as soon 
as possible, remains unimplemented 70 years after its 
adoption.  Evidently,  the  right  of  veto  exists  for  many 
reasons; however, its use has had a negative impact on 
many States and peoples, especially in our region, and 
denied them their legitimate rights.
Consequently,  if  the  United  Nations  is  to  be  a 
global leaders that is relevant to all people, it must be 
reformed  in  a  way  that  takes  into  consideration  the 
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  and  an  increase 
in  the  number  of  its  members.  It  must  also  work  in 
a  more  transparent,  democratic  and  balanced  way. 
Furthermore, it is important for the General Assembly 
to  more  closely  reflect  the  actual  orientation  of  the 
international community.
The  United  Nations  is  also  called  on  to  enhance 
human  rights  around  the  world.  Lebanon,  which 
contributed  significantly  to  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  is  committed  to  the  Declaration  in 
the  preamble  of  its  Constitution.  We  underscore  the 
freedom of the individual in society, and stress that any 
violation of human rights in any country could lead to 
conflicts in the future.
In that regard, we would like to state that Lebanon 
is steadily moving forward in promoting human rights 
at  both  the  legislative  and  the  executive  levels.  The 
Lebanese Parliament has adopted a law establishing a 
national  committee  on  human  rights,  which  includes 
the formation of a committee to investigate allegations 
of  torture  and  mistreatment.  In  that  context,  we  are 
completing a national action plan for the implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  which 
calls  on  Member  States  to  put  in  place  action  plans 
to  empower  women  to  take  part  in  decision-making, 
negotiation processes and in efforts to address conflicts. 
The Lebanese action plan guarantees the participation 
of women in the decision-making process at all levels, 
and  activates  their  role  in  preventing  conflicts,  while 
enacting laws to prevent discrimination against women 
and protect them from violence and exploitation.
In  Lebanon,  we  are  trying  to  mitigate  the  effects 
of  consecutive  conflicts  around  us.  At  the  security 
level,  we  have  managed  to  improve  our  security  and 
stability after having eradicated terrorist groups in the 
eastern  and  northern  rural  areas  and  dismantled  their 
sleeper cells.
In  terms  of  politics,  Lebanon  held  parliamentary 
elections  in  accordance  with  a  law  of  proportionality 
for the first time. That has led to a fairer representation 
of all components of Lebanese society. Today, we are in 
the process of forming a cabinet that is reflective of the 
election results.
In  terms  of  the  economy,  we  have  established 
guidelines  for  an  economic  recovery  plan  that  takes 
into  consideration  the  outcomes  of  the  Economic 
Conference  for  Development  through  Reforms  with 
the  Private  Sector  in  order  to  activate  the  production 
sectors,  update  the  infrastructure  and  bridge  the  gap 
between income and expenditure in our budget.
Nevertheless, we are still facing the consequences 
of  events  in  Syria.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  war  in 
that country, an influx of people have taken refuge in 
Lebanon  in  order  to  avoid  the  hell  of  war  there.  We 
are trying to provide a decent life for those displaced 
people. However, their numbers are increasing and they 
are affecting local Lebanese communities, as reflected, 
in terms of security, in an increase in the crime rate of 
more  than  30  per  cent;  in  terms  of  the  economy,  in  a 
rise  in  unemployment  to  21  per  cent;  and  in  terms  of 
demography,  in  an  increase  in  the  population  density 
from 400 to 600 people per square kilometre. That is 
compounded by our limited resources and a paucity of 
international  assistance  for  Lebanon,  which  makes  it 
impossible for us to continue to shoulder this burden, 
especially now that most Syrian territory is safe.
That  is  why  I  called  for  a  safe  return  when  I 
addressed  the  Assembly  from  this  very  rostrum  last 
year  (see  A/72/PV.11).  At  that  time,  I  distinguished 
between a safe return and a voluntary return. Except for 
a few, the Syrians who have taken refuge in Lebanon 
are not political refugees; the majority came to Lebanon 
owing to the security situation in their country or for 
economic reasons.
I have with me a map that was issued in 2014 by 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees.  It  shows  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
registered Syrian displaced persons from 25,000 in 2012 
to more than 1 million in 2014 — just two years — and 
shows  their  distribution  on  Lebanese  territory.  The 
map  illustrates  what  I  am  trying  to  explain  to  the 
Assembly.  In  that  connection,  I  note  that  the  United 
12/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
Nations  stopped  counting  displaced  Syrians  in  2014. 
The Lebanese General Security Directorate, however, 
has  continued  to  keep  track  of  those  statistics,  which 
show that the number of displaced Syrians in Lebanon 
increased to more than 1.5 million.
I  should  therefore  like  to  reaffirm  my  country’s 
position  in  favour  of  strengthening  the  right  to  a 
dignified,  safe  and  sustainable  return  of  displaced 
Syrians  to  their  country  without  delay.  Their  return 
should  not  be  connected  to  any  political  settlement, 
as no one knows when that will be reached. We refuse 
and reject any nationalization project for the displaced 
persons or refugees. In that context, we welcome any 
initiative that seeks to resolve the displacement issue, 
such as the Russian initiative.
History has taught us that injustice leads to war, and 
that the absence of justice and the application of double 
standards  fuel  resentment,  which  causes  extremism, 
violence and terrorism. Unfortunately, the international 
political approaches to the Middle East region still lack 
justice  and  apply  double  standards.  The  Palestinian 
question  is  the  best  example  of  that,  as  the  absence 
of justice in addressing it has led to many wars in the 
Middle East and inspired a resistance that will end only 
once injustice is eliminated and rights are realized.
The international community recently voted in the 
Security Council and the General Assembly against the 
declaration of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Despite 
the results of the voting, which reflected the will of the 
international  community,  some  embassies  have  been 
moved to Jerusalem. A law on the nature of Israel as a 
Jewish nation State was also adopted. That unjust law 
rejects other people and expressly undermines all peace 
efforts and the two-State solution.
Furthermore,  a  decision  was  taken  to  withhold 
financial assistance to the United Nations Agency for 
the Relief and Work of the Refugees of Palestine in the 
Near East (UNRWA), which is mandated with assisting 
and protecting Palestinians pending a solution to their 
suffering. Has their suffering ended, thereby triggering 
an end to the role played by UNRWA? Is the objective 
to strip them of their status as refugees and to integrate 
them into their host countries in order to eliminate the 
Palestinian identity and force them to be naturalized?
The Palestinians are a people who found themselves 
without an identity or a country overnight, owing to a 
decision taken by those who were supposed to defend 
weak  countries.  Let  us  imagine  for  a  moment  that  a 
similar international decision was taken that stripped us 
of our land and identity, and that while we were trying 
to hold on to them we were attacked from all sides in an 
effort to make us surrender. That is the situation today 
of the Palestinian people, who are dispersed throughout 
the world. Would we accept that situation for ourselves 
and  our  people?  Would  the  international  conscience 
accept that? Is that what is stipulated in international 
charters and conventions? What guarantees that small 
nations, such as the Lebanese people, will not face the 
same fate?
Furthermore,  Israeli  violations  of  resolution  1701 
(2006),  which  now  exceed  100  a  month,  continue  by 
land, sea and air, despite the fact that Lebanon remains 
fully committed to its implementation.
Our world today is suffering a crisis of extremism 
and fanaticism that manifests itself in the rejection of 
others who are different and of their culture, religion, 
ethnicity and civilization — in essence, the rejection of 
their very existence. This crisis is likely to deteriorate. 
No country is safe from this crisis and its destructive 
effects on societies and States, because it will implode 
them from within.
The United Nations — and before it, the League of 
Nations — has been unable to prevent wars, maintain 
peace  or  achieve  justice,  especially  in  our  region. 
One  of  the  main  reasons  for  that  is  because  there  is 
no  international  culture  of  peace  based  on  mutual 
understanding  and  coexistence.  There  is  therefore  an 
urgent  need  for  dialogue  among  religions,  cultures 
and  races.  We  need  international  cultural  institutions 
that  specialize  in  spreading  the  culture  of  dialogue 
and peace.
Lebanon is a pluralistic society in which Christians 
and Muslims live side by side and share governance and 
management. We also have a Lebanese diaspora spread 
throughout the world that shares common ground with 
many  civilizations  and  cultures,  making  Lebanon 
an  exemplary  country  in  which  to  establish  a  human 
academy  for  encounter  and  dialogue  to  disseminate 
those values. Last year, from this rostrum, I launched an 
initiative to turn Lebanon into an international centre 
for  dialogue  among  religions,  cultures  and  races.  We 
hope  that  this  initiative  will  materialize  and  become 
a  multilateral  convention  to  establish  such  a  centre 
in  Lebanon  that  would  be  an  international  project  for 
ongoing dialogue and harmonious coexistence, in line 
18-29871
13/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
with  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
preventive diplomacy to avoid conflicts.
Humans  are  the  enemy  of  whatever  and  whoever 
they  do  not  know.  Our  salvation  lies  in  dialogue  and 
in  coming  together,  rejecting  violence  and  achieving 
justice. That is the only path that can lead our societies 
to stability, security and sustainable development.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Lebanese Republic for the statement he 
has just made.
General  Michel  Aoun,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Ms. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, 
President of the Republic of Croatia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Croatia.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Kolinda 
Grabar-Kitarović, President of the Republic of Croatia, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Grabar-Kitarović:  We  live  in  times 
of  great  opportunities  and  serious  challenges.  We  are 
more  interconnected  than  ever,  yet  the  world  remains 
divided  in  many  ways.  Technological  developments 
have enabled our world to become a truly global village. 
Our citizens have become global citizens and are well-
informed and strongly driven by developments around 
the world. They expect global leadership in these times 
of rapid change and great complexity and look to all of 
us for inspiration.
What is it that people are looking for today? What 
is it that they expect of a leader? Mighty words? These 
do  not  really  matter  much  anymore.  Mighty  deeds? 
Yes indeed, but, foremost, what they expect of us are 
the simplest of gestures that bring us together and that 
show our compassion and respect for each other. They 
expect integrity and inspiration.
This summer, football — of all things — triggered 
a  global  response,  uniting  us  for  a  moment  in  our 
common  aspirations  to  excellence.  Following  the 
success of the Croatian national team, I received so many 
congratulatory letters and messages from all corners of 
the world — from China, Australia and Saudi Arabia 
to  France,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Nepal.  I  thank 
everyone for their kind words. Vishal Bagale of India 
kindly  said,  “Team  Croatia  really  played  well.  They 
won our hearts”. Shabbir Allam wrote in Croatian “Svi 
kao jedno” — “We are all like one”. Gilberto Castillo 
of Colombia pointed out that the final was
(spoke in Spanish)
“well-deserved  for  a  country  that  has  excelled 
in  spite  of  the  harsh  historic  situations  it  has 
experienced. It is certainly an example to follow”.
(spoke in English)
Opshori Nondona, a 14-year-old girl from Dhaka, 
Bangladesh,  was  especially  persistent  in  getting  her 
message through. She wrote:
“This year, the whole world has recognized a small 
beautiful  country —  Croatia —  and  the  power  of 
football.  Now  the  world  knows  how  powerful  a 
small, beautiful nation can be.”
These messages are but a fraction of many. What 
most of them had in common and what I could read in 
each of them is that Croatia — not a large country in 
terms of the size of its territory, its population or even 
its economic means — has become a metaphor, for all 
of these kind people who congratulated us, for what a 
country can do to inspire others and to reach the top of 
the world, winning the hearts of people worldwide and 
rousing enthusiasm that each of their countries can do 
the same.
“The value of a nation is not measured by its size”, 
underlined Bernard Stem of France. Indeed, one does 
not need physical size in order to excel; it takes heart 
and persistence. Above all, you need to share a vision 
and  to  work  together  to  make  it  happen.  It  is  not  the 
size  of  one’s  territory  that  matters;  it  is  the  size  and 
quality of one’s ideas. Magnitude is measured not only 
in volume, but even more so in determination to reach 
the goal. Individual Croatian players might have shown 
great  skill  and  technique  on  the  field,  but  the  reason 
they  triumphed  was  because  they  played  together  as 
a team.
14/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
The United Nations is a place where we must show 
our  willingness  to  act  together  and  play  together  as 
a  team.  Our  adversaries  are  many:  poverty;  hunger; 
terrorism and extremism; instability; lack of education; 
gender inequality and the exclusion of women in many 
societies; environmental hazards; endangered security 
and trampled human dignity. We leaders should think of 
ourselves as a team that needs to work together to take 
advantage of our strengths and address our weaknesses 
in order to make our world a better place and inspire 
excellence  globally.  We  should  lead  not  only  in 
managing crises and solving problems, but in spreading 
hope and optimism as well. We must demonstrate our 
humanity, solidarity and compassion and in doing so, 
we must above all respect one another. Respect is the 
most valuable asset that we have in interpersonal and 
international relations.
It  is  our  responsibility  as  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations to maintain the relevance, effectiveness 
and  efficiency  of  our  Organization  and  to  be  up  to 
the  task  for  whatever  challenges  may  confront  us. 
However, raising awareness of the most pressing issues 
is  not  enough.  We  must  also  push  for  the  adoption 
of  the  instruments  and  frameworks  necessary  to 
deal  with  them  and,  most  importantly,  secure  their 
implementation. Without that, this rostrum will remain 
a self-serving global stage, just words without deeds.
Through the years, we have often learned the hard 
way that Governments and international organizations 
alike have their limits. This has also taught us the value 
and  importance  of  inclusiveness  and  the  important 
role that the private sector, academia, civil society and 
brilliant individuals can play in many different fields. 
Croatia has many Luka Modrićs, and not only in sports. 
Our people excel in so many areas. Marin Soljačić is a 
modern-day Nikola Tesla who is developing a wireless 
transfer of energy, Iva Tolić is conducting breakthrough 
work  in  molecular  cell  biology,  Ivan  Mrvoš  is  a 
developer  of  smart  city  furniture  for  the  cities  of  the 
future  and  Mate  Rimac  is  building  electric  cars,  to 
name just a few among countless others.
So  let  us  push  against  the  formal  limits  of  our 
organizations.  Let  us  embrace  the  abundant  talent 
around us. Let us inspire through science and innovation, 
through our brilliant individuals at home and our well-
established,  hard-working  diaspora  around  the  world. 
Let us inspire through our dedicated and tireless work 
at the United Nations. Deeds, not words; inclusion, not 
exclusion  or  isolation;  empowerment  and  motivation 
are the keys to success.
We are the global village, but more often than not 
we tend to miss opportunities to bring the global agenda 
to  our  homes,  communities  and  families.  We  also 
forget to include our homes, communities and families 
on  the  global  agenda.  It  takes  great  tragedies  caused 
by  disasters,  global  crises,  wars  or  climate  change  to 
remind us of what we all stand to lose. In today’s world, 
that  approach,  embodied  in  multilateralism,  is  under 
ever-increasing  strain.  This  is  of  particular  concern, 
since the most important issues for humankind cannot 
be resolved by any State single-handedly or in isolation. 
Multilateralism is indispensable, but I would agree with 
those  who  call  for  changes  to  the  multilateral  system 
that we should not be complacent. We need to rethink 
decades-old  mechanisms  and  instruments  in  order  to 
adapt them to modern times and contemporary needs.
As we celebrate two very important anniversaries 
this year — the 70 years of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the 25 years of the Vienna Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  —  it  is  a  fitting  time  to 
remember  that  respect  for  human  rights,  democracy 
and  the  rule  of  law  has  always  been  a  precondition 
for  long-term  stability,  peace  and  development.  Nor 
should  we  forget  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide. We must learn from the tragedies 
of Srebrenica and Rwanda — “a shame for the United 
Nations”, as described by the great Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan, to whom I pay special tribute today. Those 
dark hours must never be forgotten.
This  year  Croatia  marked 
its  fifth  year  of 
membership  in  the  European  Union  (EU).  Croatia  is 
a  telling  example  of  the  transformative  force  of  EU 
membership  and  the  benefits  of  accession  to  a  space 
where  peace,  freedom,  human  dignity  and  prosperity 
are  standards,  not  mere  ideals.  For  those  reasons, 
among  others,  Croatia  strongly  supports  further  EU 
enlargement 
to  our  south-eastern  neighbourhood. 
Resolving  all  the  outstanding  legacies  of  war  while 
constructively  engaging  in  regional  cooperation  and 
good-neighbourly  relations  is  of  course  essential. 
Within  that  framework  we  will  maintain  a  particular 
focus  on  issues  related  to  the  rights  of  minorities, 
missing  persons,  war  crimes  jurisdiction,  victims  of 
war and domestic processing of war crimes.
18-29871
15/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
Good and mutually beneficial neighbourly relations 
depend  to  a  large  degree  on  the  words  coming  from 
across  the  border,  because  it  takes  only  a  moment 
to  deliver  inflammatory  and  revisionist  rhetoric  in 
response to domestic political circumstances. However, 
repairing the damage caused takes much, much longer. 
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, our closest neighbour and 
a country that is extremely important to Croatia, we see 
a  potential  risk  of  legal  uncertainty  and  political  and 
institutional  instability  in  the  wake  of  the  upcoming 
October  elections,  owing  to  a  failure  to  amend  the 
electoral framework so that it fully respects the rights 
and equality of Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs, the three 
constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line 
with the Constitutional Court’s decision on the legitimate 
and proportionate representation of constituent peoples 
at all levels of Government, including the presidency. 
And although it is for the two sides involved to resolve 
the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue, we should be extremely 
cautious  when  it  comes  to  proposals  with  potential 
regional  implications,  notably  on  ideas  regarding 
territorial  exchanges.  Otherwise  we  could  reopen  a 
Pandora’s  box  of  potential  new  territorial  claims  that 
would provoke serious instability and security threats.
There  are  inspiring  developments,  however,  that 
have  also  demonstrated  brave  leadership  in  our  own 
region of South-East Europe. We warmly welcome the 
signing of the agreement reached on the name dispute 
between  Skopje  and  Athens,  and  we  hope  that  the 
referendum this coming Sunday will represent a crucial 
impetus for the country’s successful continuation of its 
path of integration into Europe.
By  adopting  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, along with the historic Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, 
we have sent a powerful message that there is hope for 
a brighter future. However, if we are to succeed in our 
endeavours,  we  have  to  mobilize  all  partners  to  work 
together.  In  that  way  we  can  achieve  social  progress, 
protect the environment, create economic growth and 
build a more just, stable and peaceful world. Runaway 
climate  change  is  one  of  the  most  serious  threats 
that  we  are  regularly  witnessing  —  from  heatwaves 
and  forest  fires,  no  longer  limited  to  California  or 
the  Mediterranean  but  now  also  in  places  such  as 
Scandinavia,  to  historic  typhoons  in  Japan  or  the 
Philippines and to the melting of the ice sheets on the 
planet’s poles.
No  country  can  shield  itself  from  the  negative 
effects of climate change, and Croatia is no exception. 
With more than 1,000 islands, islets and reefs, and a rich 
history of Mediterranean heritage, the implementation 
of  the  goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development right now is crucial to Croatia’s future. All 
over the world, including Croatia, we are seeing rises in 
sea  temperatures  and  unprecedented  and  irreversible 
changes in ecosystems. In Croatia’s beautiful Adriatic 
Sea, one of the cleanest in the world, we have already 
registered  more  than  20  new  species  of  tropical  fish, 
some of them extremely invasive, that could irreparably 
shift  its  environmental  balance.  We  may  soon  be 
exposed  to  the  danger  of  rising  sea  levels,  which  is 
already  an  existential  issue  for  many  small  islands 
around  the  world.  It  is  estimated  that  the  sea  level  in 
the Adriatic will rise by almost half a metre by the year 
2100,  submerging  parts  of  world  heritage  places  and 
treasures such as Split, Trogir and Dubrovnik. That is 
why climate action is not an abstract issue. It is a serious 
matter requiring our constant and undivided attention.
One  of  the  most  important  climate-action  and 
sustainable-development issues for Croatia is reversing 
the demographic trends on our islands, which are turning 
into places where schools have no children and churches 
see  more  funerals  than  baptisms  and  weddings.  And 
yet the problems that many of these islands are facing 
are  common  all  over  the  world.  We  need  to  improve 
affordable transportation and connections between the 
islands and the mainland. We need to resolve our water-
supply  issues  and  provide  clean  water  and  sanitation. 
We need to invest in education, technology, science and 
innovation so that societies and families can once again 
flourish on the islands.
Blue growth could be a solution. It is a long-term 
strategy  to  support  sustainable  growth  in  the  marine 
and maritime sectors as a whole. The seas are drivers 
of  the  economy,  with  great  potential  for  innovation 
and growth, and they are set to grow at twice the rate 
of  the  mainstream  economy  by  2030.  That  growth 
is  especially  welcome  in  a  number  of  areas  such  as 
sustainable  coastal 
tourism,  new  health  benefits, 
better connectivity for islands, sustainable blue growth 
and  jobs,  marine  technology,  renewable  energy,  the 
management  of  maritime  ecological  threats  and  the 
preservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, as well as 
improving safety and security with regard to maritime 
traffic and cross-border maritime pollution.
16/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
One  of  the  issues  that  I  would  particularly  like 
to  emphasize  today  is  marine  litter,  an  increasingly 
worrying problem that threatens marine life in all of the 
world’s oceans and affects more than 600 marine species. 
Croatia’s  coastal  areas  are  being  severely  affected  by 
poorly  managed  waste  from  our  southern  Adriatic 
neighbours. We have to address the rising problem of 
plastic pollution in our seas and oceans urgently if we 
want  to  leave  a  liveable  world  for  future  generations. 
Plastic debris — and each year around 8 million tons 
of it ends up in our oceans and seas — is particularly 
worrying  because  it  is  resistant  to  environmental 
breakdown.  Plastic  pollution  not  only  harms  sea  life, 
it also carries toxic pollutants into the food chain, with 
us humans at the top. We can start solving this problem 
by educating and engaging everyone in a conversation 
to rethink plastic, by challenging society’s perception 
that  this  indestructible  substance  can  be  treated 
as disposable.
In that regard, particular attention should be given 
to the Ocean Cleanup project, which is designing and 
developing the first feasible method to rid the world’s 
oceans  of  plastic.  Its  first  mission,  to  remove  50  per 
cent of the so-called great Pacific garbage patch in just 
five years, started several weeks ago. In the media they 
are  calling  it  Pac-Man,  in  a  reference  to  the  popular 
early  video  game.  Boyan  Slat,  the  young  man  behind 
the invention, is a brilliant scientist of Croatian origin, 
living in the Netherlands, and he fully deserves to be 
given  credit  here  today,  beneath  the  United  Nations 
logo,  which  clearly  shows  our  oceans.  My  country 
is  already  actively  preparing  for  the  fulfilment  of  its 
obligations under the Paris Agreement.
This  year  was  one  of  United  Nations  reforms 
in  more  ways  than  one  —  not  only  through  results 
achieved  in  the  pivotal  sectors  of  peace  and  security, 
development and United Nations management, but also 
in the transformational nature of our mutual efforts to 
make our Organization fit for the twenty-first century. 
The  world  has  changed  profoundly  since  1945  and 
the  birth  of  the  United  Nations.  In  our  reforms,  it  is 
essential  that  we  strike  the  right  balance  between  the 
maintenance  of  the  basic  framework  based  on  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  flexibility  that 
our  new  realities  and  contemporary  needs  demand. 
In pursuing United Nations reforms, we must not lose 
sight  of  the  2030  Agenda.  We  need  a  United  Nations 
that  is  capable  of  coping  with  constant  changes  and 
growing challenges in the international arena, whether 
in the field of regional security, conflict management, 
threats to the environment, human rights or front-line 
technologies  that  are  fundamentally  transforming  the 
areas of labour and disarmament alike.
I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the 
Secretary-General and his team for their tireless efforts 
to achieve reform. There is still a lot of work ahead of 
us, but we should be pleased with this year’s results and 
trends.  If  we  want  to  move  forward  and  leave  no  one 
behind; if we truly strive to make the United Nations 
more relevant and, in doing so, more effective, we must 
also realize that the Organization is and should be much 
more than just New York, Geneva, Vienna, Nairobi or 
any other conference location. Multilateralism starts in 
our  own  homes  and  our  own  minds.  It  cannot  be  an 
annual event. It needs to be our daily routine, a way of 
doing business in the world. Everything that we want to 
achieve globally and everything that we have agreed to 
so far under this dome will be easier to accomplish with 
the understanding and support of our citizens.
In  order  to  confront  all  the  adversities  and 
adversaries  mentioned  in  my  speech,  both  as  I  have 
delivered it and in the more complete, written version 
that has been circulated, we must show our determination 
to  take  on  the  risk  of  decision-making.  We  must  be 
open to new ideas and we must show emotion, empathy 
and  above  all  enthusiasm.  Enthusiasm  is  contagious. 
As  Nelson  Mandela  —  Madiba  —  whose  centenary 
we celebrated two days ago, may have said, “It always 
seems impossible until it’s done.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Croatia for the statement 
she has just made.
Ms.  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Croatia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, 
President of the Republic of Yemen.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Yemen.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
18-29871
17/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mansour  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf 
of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Espinosa 
Garcés  and  the  friendly  Republic  of  Ecuador  on  her 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its current session, and to wish her every success. I 
would also like to thank her predecessor for his notable 
efforts at the helm of the previous session. I thank the 
Secretary-General for his sincere and outstanding work, 
especially his attempts to advance peace in my country, 
Yemen, as well as his Special Envoy for Yemen, Martin 
Griffiths, whose ongoing efforts we support.
This  is  the  fourth  time  I  have  addressed  the 
Assembly  from  this  rostrum  since  2015.  We  are  still 
in  the  grip  of  a  war  imposed  on  our  long-established 
Yemeni  people  by  armed  militias  who  are  receiving 
financial,  media,  military  and  logistical  support  from 
Iran and Hizbullah. They are extremists. They employ 
gangster tactics such as blowing up houses and places 
of  worship  and  planting  mines  with  unprecedented 
recklessness.  They  forcibly  recruit  children  and 
extort  funds  and  remittances.  They  have  taken  away 
our freedoms and rights while wreaking havoc in our 
institutions.  However,  as  I  address  the  Assembly,  the 
Government  of  Yemen  and  all  our  local  authorities 
and  Government  agencies  are  working  hard  from  our 
provisional capital, Aden, and in our various liberated 
governorates to restore security and stability, as well as 
to provide services and create a democratic, federated 
civilian State where human rights are safeguarded, the 
dignity of women and youth is protected and the rights of 
children and various marginalized sectors of society are 
respected, a State where justice and equality prevail, in 
accordance with the outcome of our National Dialogue 
Conference  and  as  a  result  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation 
Council  Initiative,  its  implementation  mechanism  and 
the relevant Security Council resolutions.
In  past  statements  from  this  rostrum  I  have 
emphasized that Yemen’s predicament is not a political 
conflict that can be contained in a dialogue. I have said 
that it is not even a coup, as those are conventionally 
defined and as happen in other States. It is a series of 
attempts to undermine the foundations of coexistence 
among  Yemenis,  to  undermine  their  moderate  beliefs 
and national principles as established by the two glorious 
revolutions  of  26  September  and  14  October.  We  are 
fighting  a  complex  religious  group  that  believes  as  a 
matter of policy in its divine and exclusive right to rule. 
It scorns all the contemporary values of democracy and 
human rights. Socially, it considers itself a unique race 
and  demands  that  people  glorify  it.  It  is  a  group  that 
has  made  use  of  every  form  of  violence  to  tear  down 
society and sow hatred among the people. Nationally, it 
is a group that has abandoned any loyalty to its nation 
and  has  become  a  war  proxy  that  is  beholden  to  Iran 
and  Hizbullah.  Any  attempt  to  make  peace  with  it  is 
therefore doomed to fail, despite the major concessions 
we have made to establish peace in Yemen.
With  that  in  mind,  I  call  on  the  international 
community  to  shoulder  its  responsibilities  by  putting 
pressure  on  Iran  to  stop  intervening  in  Yemen  and 
supporting  the  Houthi  militias,  and  to  abide  by 
international  resolutions  and  participate  in  peace 
efforts.  On  multiple  occasions  from  this  rostrum  I 
have  told  the  Assembly  that  Iran  conducts  blatant 
interventions in Yemen. It finances the Houthi militias 
and provides them with weapons, missiles, equipment 
and experts. It targets international and regional waters 
and  jeopardizes  international  shipping  routes,  and  its 
policies enable the flow of drugs to other countries as 
well as drug-trafficking generally. It supports terrorism 
through the Houthis, Al-Qaida and Da’esh.
The  Yemeni  Government  has  always  reached  out 
for  peace  through  round  after  round  of  consultations 
in  Vienna,  Geneva  and  Kuwait,  and  even  after  our 
Government  delegation’s  return  from  Geneva  at  the 
beginning of this month. Our high-level delegation was 
keen to seize any opportunity that would alleviate the 
suffering  of  our  people  and  achieve  peace.  However, 
the  intransigence  and  brazenness  of  the  insurgent 
Houthi  militias  have  disappointed  the  hopes  of  the 
Yemeni people that any possible progress can be made, 
even at the humanitarian level. That is typical of this 
terrorist group.
I  would  like  to  underscore  once  again  from  this 
rostrum that we are ready for peace. We do not advocate 
war and vengeance but rather peace and harmony. We 
are  fully  aware  of  our  responsibilities  to  the  patient 
Yemeni  people.  What  we  are  seeking  is  sustainable 
peace  based  on  national,  regional  and  international 
terms  of  reference.  We  want  to  restore  our  State  and 
put an end to the coup in every aspect. We uphold the 
principles  that  our  State  must  have  sovereignty  over 
18/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
all  of  our  national  territory  and  that  the  State  alone 
must possess medium and heavy weapons. That is the 
only  way  to  attain  stability  in  Yemen.  Anything  else 
will merely mean delaying and then preparing for new 
rounds of war and conflict.
We know that we cannot obtain peace by pleading 
with these gangsters, as some Member States do. Rather, 
peace can be achieved by diligently implementing the 
relevant  international  resolutions,  and  Member  States 
should be serious about implementing them, especially 
Security Council resolution 2216 (2015), which calls on 
the Houthis to withdraw from cities and institutions and 
to hand over their weapons unconditionally. I therefore 
want  to  call  on  the  Council  not  to  waver  in  ensuring 
that its resolutions are implemented, as it did to ensure 
the political transition and national dialogue in Yemen, 
which endured for more than a year.
I  want  to  underline  the  Yemeni  Government’s 
commitment to its efforts to protect civilians, especially 
women and children. We do not target civilians or their 
schools, hospitals or residential areas where there are 
rebel  strongholds.  We  have  an  independent  national 
commission  of  inquiry  into  human  rights  violations 
that investigates all allegations of violations of any sort. 
Every military unit of the Yemeni army has also been 
instructed not only to refrain from recruiting children 
but  also  to  protect  them,  rehabilitate  those  who  have 
been detained when fighting with the rebels and ensure 
that they return to school.
It is well known that the war has left our country 
facing  economic  hardship.  The  militias  have  drained 
our  country’s  resources  and  our  internal  and  external 
reserves,  which  has  had  an  enormous  impact  on  our 
citizens. In an effort to deal with these issues and stop 
the  situation  from  continuing  to  deteriorate,  we  have 
introduced  a  series  of  measures,  most  recently  last 
month, when we created an economic commission that 
the  Government  has  authorized  to  take  all  necessary 
measures  to  halt  the  devaluation  of  our  currency  and 
develop  a  comprehensive  economic  vision  that  can 
help  us  adapt  to  this  unprecedented  situation.  The 
Government, the commission and the Central Bank of 
Yemen  have  taken  numerous  remedial  measures  and 
issued  a  number  of  immediate  instructions  aimed  at 
optimizing the conditions for dealing with our economic 
difficulties.  They  include  permitting  the  export  of 
oil  and  gas,  stopping  foreign  currency  flight,  curbing 
imports  of  luxury  goods  and  raising  interest  rates.  In 
that regard, while Saudi deposits, though not the first 
attempts to stop the devaluation of our local currency, 
have helped to mitigate the economic crisis, Yemen is 
still more than ever in dire need of everyone’s support.
Despite  Yemen’s  limited  resources  and  current 
circumstances,  we  continue  to  participate  genuinely 
and  effectively  in  the  fight  against  terrorism,  which 
is  an  unprecedented  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security, as well as development. Within the framework 
of  our  national  policy  on  fighting  the  scourge  of 
terrorism, the Government will not cut back its efforts 
to  take  measures  to  counter  terrorism  financing 
and  money  laundering,  and  we  are  making  earnest 
efforts  to  continue  implementing  our  laws  in  that 
regard.  My  Government  has  imposed  more  stringent 
controls  on  various  suspicious  financial  transactions 
and  has  strengthened  coordination,  cooperation  and 
the  exchange  of  information  with  all  the  relevant 
international  and  regional  stakeholders.  The  Yemeni 
Government will also spare no effort to combat drugs 
and the illicit trade in them, whose proceeds are used 
to support and finance the terrorist acts committed by 
the Houthi militias, Al-Qaida and Da’esh. I call on all 
States to cooperate and coordinate with us in combating 
the  smuggling  of  artefacts  for  financing  militias  and 
terrorist groups.
It  is  a  happy  coincidence  that  today  marks  the 
great  Yemeni  people’s  celebration  of  the  fifty-sixth 
anniversary of our immortal 26 September revolution, 
which declared Yemen a democratic republic more than 
half  a  century  ago.  We  are  proud  to  be  able  to  retell 
the  glories  of  Yemen  and  the  struggle  of  its  liberal 
heroes.  We  want  to  stress  to  our  people  that  the  long 
history of the sacrifices that Yemenis initiated against 
underdevelopment, the rule of the clergy, injustice and 
tyranny is complemented today by the sacrifices of the 
heroes who are defending our revolution, our Republic 
and our country’s unity. In the twenty-first century we 
can never accept the return of the rule of the mullahs 
in  a  new  guise,  that  of  the  Houthi  militias  who  want 
Yemen to revert to the dark ages of despotism.
Yemen is the origin and source of Arabism. It will 
continue to stand tall, proud and unified under a just, 
federated  regime  that  corresponds  to  the  ambitions 
and  expectations  of  our  great  people.  I  am  saddened 
to  see  bloodshed  anywhere  in  Yemen,  but  I  feel 
responsible before God and the people for stopping that 
bloodshed, inflicted by the war that has been imposed 
on our people. We will continue to strive positively and 
patiently  alongside  the  rest  of  the  world  and  to  make 
18-29871
19/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
every sacrifice in our quest to restore peace, security 
and stability. It is our duty to alleviate the suffering of 
our people throughout our beloved nation, which today 
is struggling to implement the outcomes of the National 
Dialogue Conference, which are supported unanimously 
by Yemenis of all Yemeni parties, political and civilian 
organizations,  including  the  Houthis  themselves,  and 
have  been  drafted  as  part  of  the  Constitution  for  our 
new federated Yemen.
In  that  regard,  on  behalf  of  the  Yemeni  people  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  King,  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  It  has 
played  a  leading  role  in  alleviating  the  humanitarian 
suffering  in  Yemen  through  its  continued  support 
and its humanitarian relief and reconstruction efforts, 
especially  the  Saudi  reconstruction  and  development 
programme  in  Yemen,  an  outstanding  project  aimed 
at  bringing  development  to  our  troubled  areas.  Those 
efforts  are  starting  to  have  positive  effects  for  both 
the  economy  and  for  Yemeni  citizens  throughout  the 
liberated territories. I would also like to sincerely thank 
the  humanitarian  organizations  of  the  Arab  coalition 
countries,  as  well  as  our  sisterly  and  friendly  donor 
countries,  in  addition  to  the  various  United  Nations 
bodies,  for  their  exceptional  humanitarian  efforts.  I 
also want to take this opportunity to renew my call to 
all donors to honour the pledges they have made to the 
humanitarian  response  plan  in  Yemen  with  a  view  to 
further alleviating my people’s suffering.
The  suffering  of 
the  Palestinian  people 
is 
growing  daily,  owing  to  Israel’s  occupation  policies 
in  the  Palestinian  territories.  That  is  the  main  cause 
of  tension  in  the  Middle  East.  The  Palestinian  people 
have long awaited a just solution that will guarantee the 
creation of their independent State and an end to their 
suffering.  In  that  regard,  we  call  on  the  international 
community to continue supporting the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near  East,  in  order  to  enable  it  to  continue  assisting 
Palestinian refugees.
My  hope  is  to  see  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  this  session  succeed.  I  hope  that  by  the 
next session, peace will have prevailed in Yemen and in 
the whole world.
Mr. Gata Mavita Wa Lufuta (Democratic Republic 
of the Congo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  salute  from  this 
rostrum all our great Yemeni people, who are struggling 
everywhere  to  create  a  new,  federated  Yemen,  a 
Yemen  of  justice,  equality  and  good  governance.  I 
congratulate all of them, everywhere, on the occasion 
of the fifty-sixth anniversary of the glorious revolution 
of 26 September and the fifty-fifth anniversary of the 
immortal revolution of 14 October. I also want to say to 
all honourable, liberal, striving Yemenis that upholding 
the objectives of the September and October revolutions 
requires  the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the 
National  Dialogue  Conference  and  the  creation  of  a 
new  federated  Yemen  with  all  of  its  six  regions. May 
the liberal martyrs of Yemen rest in peace. I also wish 
a speedy recovery to the Yemeni wounded and freedom 
to the abductees.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen  for  the  statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tabaré Vázquez, President of the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr.  Tabaré  Vázquez,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic of Uruguay, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tabaré 
Vázquez, President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Vázquez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  bring 
greetings  from  the  people  of  the  Eastern  Republic 
of  Uruguay,  a  country  in  the  Southern  cone  of  the 
Americas  that  is  small  but  nonetheless  has  strong 
democratic  institutions,  social  and  economic  stability 
and  clearly  defined  values  and  principles,  and  that  is 
making  tangible  progress  in  all  areas.  Of  course,  it 
is  not  and  never  will  be  perfect —  do  such  countries 
exist?  —  but  it  works  humbly  day  after  day  to  make 
progress while leaving none of its inhabitants behind. 
That is the meaning of development, a multidimensional 
and dynamic process aimed at achieving the well-being 
20/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
and prosperity of all citizens. In the World Economic 
Forum’s Inclusive Development Index 2018, published 
in  January,  Uruguay  is  ranked  as  one  of  the  10  most 
inclusive emerging countries in the world and second 
in  Latin  America,  owing  to  efficient  public  policies 
that  enable  us  to  use  economic  growth  to  reduce 
inequalities  and  promote  social  inclusion  and  equity 
among generations.
Despite that, we admit that we still have a lot to do. 
In that regard, there is a specific issue affecting several 
countries, including our own, that I would like to briefly 
discuss.  In  our  view,  the  criteria  and  methodology 
that  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development applies to assess countries’ development 
according to their per capita income represents a grave 
injustice. As a result, Uruguay, like other countries in 
the region, has been considered a high-income country 
since  2013,  and  starting  this  year,  no  longer  qualifies 
for official development assistance. The recognition of 
our progress is encouraging, but we do not agree with 
the new classification for a fundamental reason, which 
is that while growth and development are linked, they 
are  clearly  not  the  same  thing.  Uruguay  has  enjoyed 
significant economic growth over the past 15 years that 
has  enabled  thousands  of  its  citizens  to  emerge  from 
poverty. But structural gaps persist.
Development  in  transition  is  not  an  arbitrary 
concept.  It  is  the  most  accurate  description  of  the 
situation of countries that, like Uruguay, are on a path to 
development but still need the support of reconsidered 
and  reoriented  cooperation.  There  is  no  question  that 
we  have  made  progress,  but  the  road  ahead  will  still 
be difficult. Paradoxically, it seems that no good deed 
goes unpunished, and we hope that this criterion will be 
reviewed soon. In addition, we are also of the view that 
in the life of countries not everything is about economic 
development  and  the  distribution  of  resources.  We 
in  Uruguay  know  that  and  have  advocated  nationally 
and internationally for an agenda oriented towards the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
approved by the Assembly in the framework of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. Such an agenda 
should  put  special  emphasis  on  the  transformation  of 
the  energy  matrix  towards  renewable  sources  and 
adaptation  to  verifiable  climate  change;  on  making 
progress in the irrefutible responsibility to protect our 
environment; and, as members are aware, on the fight 
for the health of our people, which is the struggle for 
life,  the  main  human  right  that  all  the  beings  on  this 
planet have.
As a result, we have implemented strict policies for 
the control of tobacco consumption and the prevention 
of  non-communicable  diseases,  one  of  humankind’s 
worst  afflictions,  in  addition  to  active  participation 
at  the  international  level.  That  includes  co-chairing 
the  World  Health  Organization  Independent  High-
level Commission on Noncommunicable Diseases and 
hosting the Global Conference on Non-Communicable 
Diseases in October 2017, where the Montevideo Road 
Map 2018-2030 was approved, wherein we reaffirmed 
the  commitment  to  undertake  bold  actions  to  reduce 
by  one  third  the  number  of  premature  deaths  from 
such  diseases.  There  is  much  left  for  us  to  do.  There 
is  also  much  to  be  done  to  combat  the  mortal  agent 
that  is  tobacco,  which  kills  more  than  7  million  of 
the  planet’s  inhabitants  per  year,  much  more  than  the 
number killed by the two world wars of the twentieth 
century. That is why we invite every country to apply 
the measures established in Montevideo by the World 
Health Organization.
Those and other elements — such as the universal 
digital  agenda,  for  which  we  we  have  developed  our 
Ceibal  and  Ibirapitá  plans,  which  we  do  not  have  the 
time  to  go  into  further  detail  about  here  —  give  an 
account of a small, modest and self-confident country 
moving  in  a  concrete  direction.  That  direction  could 
be described simply as improving the quality of life of 
all the country’s inhabitants without discrimination of 
any kind.
Uruguay also belongs to the region and the world. 
In  that  vein,  we  reaffirm  our  historic  commitment  to 
a  more  participatory,  fairer,  balanced  and  multipolar 
international  system  that  translates  into  the  basic 
principles  of  our  foreign  policy  that  has  existed 
for  decades.  That  includes,  for  example,  first,  the 
commitment to the maintenance of peace, international 
disarmament and security, as well as the participation of 
our armed forces in peacekeeping operations; second, 
our  country’s  firm  rejection  of  terrorism,  organized 
crime  and  all  types  of  violence  and  discrimination, 
which  unfortunately  are  rampant  in  the  world;  third, 
support  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and 
for the sovereign equality of States regardless of their 
geographical  size  and  number  of  inhabitants;  fourth, 
unimpeded dedication to, and respect for, international 
law, which is the greatest guarantee for the sovereignty 
of  peoples  and  their  peaceful  coexistence;  fifth,  our 
18-29871
21/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
unwavering  commitment  to  the  promotion  and  the 
protection  of  all  human  rights;  sixth,  adherence  to 
relevant notions such as non-intervention in the internal 
affairs  of  other  States,  respect  for  sovereignty  and 
the  self-determination  of  peoples;  and,  seventh,  the 
promotion of multilateralism in all its facets, political, 
economic, cultural, et cetera, as the best way to face the 
global challenges facing humankind.
In a turbulent international context where the world 
resembles an asylum run by its own patients, we assert 
more than ever the values and principles I just mentioned. 
In that context, we call for a joint, committed effort to 
strengthen and modernize the international system and 
the United Nations. Those are not just words. In practice 
we worked intensely as non-permanent members of the 
Security Council during the 2016-2017 biennium, and 
now we are doing the same in the Economic and Social 
Council. We put forward our country’s candidature as 
a member of the Human Rights Council for the period 
2019-2021.  Uruguay  is  committed  to  pacifist  ideals, 
solidarity and global peace and security.
From  this  place,  where  we  can  speak  about  any 
number  of  issues  of  interest  to  humankind,  I  wish  to 
conclude  my  intervention  by  mentioning  one  that, 
humbly,  we  consider  it  a  priority  to  address  before 
everyone  here.  I  am  speaking  of  environmental 
degradation  and  the  consequences  of  climate  change. 
The crisis that we are experiencing at the global level 
must  be  handled  decisively  by  the  leaders  of  each  of 
the nations represented here. This is everyone’s fight. 
It  is  the  struggle  for  life.  We  ask  the  powerful  world 
leaders  to  respect  international  agreements  to  protect 
the environment and to try to avoid ills that are suffered 
essentially  by  the  world’s  poorest  people.  We  have  to 
take active measures to protect all people in our world, 
especially the poorest, who suffer the most. The world 
is  also  suffering,  just  as  a  living  being  suffers,  from 
various risk factors that destroy it little by little, day after 
day. This world is our only home for now and for future 
generations.  This  world  suffers  from  wars,  from  the 
unbridled desire for indiscriminate profit by industries 
that  kill  humankind,  as  the  tobacco  industry  does, 
which have no regard for the environment, pollution or 
the  consequences  of  the  savage  consumerism  that  we 
are experiencing.
Just  as  our  behaviour  directly  affects  our  health, 
and it is the duty of the States to fight for the lives of 
their inhabitants, it is the duty of all of us who inhabit 
this planet to fight for the place in which we live and 
that  we  will  have  to  leave  for  those  who  will  follow 
us in this life. That is the case of the December 2015 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  concluded 
within  the  framework  of  the  1994  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  As  it  is 
the best possible hope for global survival and security, 
as well as a commitment that is essential to achieving 
the 2030 Agenda, we reaffim our commitment to that 
Agreement. We once again urge the powerful leaders of 
the countries of the world to respect and comply with 
those Agreements. Agreements are signed in order to be 
carried out — and this one especially must be complied 
with. We also join the call to all those States that have 
not yet ratified it to do so as soon as possible. On that 
issue,  as  in  so  many  other  areas  of  life,  we  need  not 
rush; however, we must not be late either. Humankind 
does not have much time to consider those agreements, 
which are necessary to protect the environment.
system 
In  conclusion,  we  are  convinced  that  the  United 
Nations 
is  humankind’s  best  possible 
opportunity to approach confidently and optimistically 
the problems that the present and the future pose, and 
to act accordingly. We are all necessary to this shared 
task. Member States can count on us, and we know that 
we can count on all Member States.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Tabaré  Vázquez,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic of Uruguay Republic, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Iván Duque Márquez, President of 
the Republic of Colombia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Iván  Duque  Márquez,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Colombia.
Mr. Iván Duque Márquez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Iván Duque 
Márquez, President of the Republic of Colombia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
22/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
President  Duque  Márquez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have the immense honour of addressing this historical 
and  important  General  Assembly  for  the  first  time 
as  the  President  of  Colombia.  I  arrive  both  proud  at 
having been elected with the highest number of votes 
in our electoral history and at being a member of a new 
generation  of  Colombians  who  are  motivated  to  unite 
our country around common objectives.
Colombia is a magical country, where many races, 
regions, customs and ecosystems coexist. It is a nation 
where  culture,  ancestral  heritage,  nature  and  the 
industrious and helpful spirit of our citizens define the 
resilient vastness of a society that does not bend to any 
adversity. Our patriotic, industrious and tireless work 
force has made Colombia a people that has earned the 
respect of the world and attracted interest in investment, 
and one that is charting a path towards progress, with 
democratic institutions.
We  have  been  able  to  maintain  economic  growth 
amid  complex  regional  volatilities.  We  have  seen 
cities transform, a boost in production sectors and an 
expansion of the middle class while we adapted to the 
challenges  of  globalization.  We  have  made  progress 
in  gender  equality  and  in  the  worlds  of  work  and 
education. In recognition of that progress, I named the 
first  Cabinet  with  gender  parity  in  the  history  of  my 
country. But there is much to be done on that front, and 
we will continue to move forward. In proudly telling of 
that history, I commit myself as a Colombian and I am 
even more so as we move towards 2019, when we will 
celebrate the bicentennial of our independence.
We  must  be  more  motivated  today  than  ever  to 
achieve  social 
justice,  reject  hatred,  polarization 
and  revenge  and  concentrate  on  achieving  a  pact  for 
Colombia  —  a  pact  for  equity.  That  is  the  invitation 
we are sending: that we build a development plan and 
agenda to define State policies in the coming decades, 
using the achievement of the Sustainable Development 
Goals  by  2030  as  a  reference,  within  a  framework  of 
legality  and  entrepreneurship  that  bring  us  to  the 
desired  and  necessary  equity.  I  want  that  proposed 
agreement to be based in legality. Peace is an objective 
of  all  Colombians  and  all  of  us,  absolutely  everyone, 
will work decisively for it. However, peace needs to be 
built  with  the  rule  of  law,  which  combines  the  public 
goods of security and justice.
Our Government is going to work so that the process 
of  demobilization,  disarmament  and  reintegration 
put  forward  in  the  past  few  years  will  go  forward 
successfully.  We  will  offer  those  who  have  genuinely 
opted to rejoin the law and to be subject to the principles 
of truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition the right 
opportunities for progress and protection. I appreciate 
the support of the United Nations for its commitment 
to  contributing  to  the  success  of  that  process.  For 
that  reason,  we  have  asked  it  to  continue  with  those 
tasks. We will work in the same way to ensure that the 
resources and investments that give rise to hope reach 
all  regions  of  the  country,  primarily  those  that  have 
been  hit  by  violence.  The  United  Nations  Mission  in 
Colombia as well as our supervisory bodies know that 
our Government has gone through a fragile process on 
several  fronts.  The  first  is  budgetary  fragility:  many 
commitments were made without allocating sufficient 
resources.  The  second  is  institutional  fragility:  a 
dispersed  and  complex  architecture  was  created  that 
has so far been unable to effectively make progress in 
the achievement of all the goals.
However, I want to reiterate to the Assembly that 
Colombia’s  goal  is  to  comply  with  our  obligations  to 
those  who  have  genuinely  left  the  path  of  violence 
behind.  We  hope  to  be  able  to  count  on  the  financial 
support of the entire international community to give 
the  process  the  necessary  strength.  But  just  as  we 
would comply with our obligations to those who abide 
by the rules, it is also our duty to apply the law in an 
exemplary manner when it comes to those who persist 
on the path of criminality. We will not accept a repeat of 
the violence. Those who continue in the world of crime 
and who seek to mock the victims and the generosity of 
the Colombian people will feel the full force of justice.
If  we  want  peace  to  reign  in  Colombia,  we  must 
defeat  drug  trafficking.  With  regard  to  illicit  crops, 
we  became  aware  of  an  alarming  situation  a  few 
weeks  ago.  The  growing  trend  of  the  past  five  years 
cannot  continue,  since  such  seeds  have  fuelled  and 
become  the  reason  for  the  emergence  of  dangerous 
organized armed groups. That is why we are committed 
to  dismantling  those  transnational  criminal  networks 
through a comprehensive approach.
Drug  trafficking  is  a  global  threat.  It  is  true  that 
we  must  do  more  in  terms  of  prevention  and  care  for 
addicts  from  a  public  health  perspective.  That  is  an 
indisputable  truth.  However,  it  is  no  less  true  that 
drug  trafficking  in  Colombia  is  a  predator  of  the 
environment, a destroyer of institutions and, above all, 
a  corrupter  of  society.  It  is  our  moral  duty  to  combat 
18-29871
23/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
that phenomenon, while at the same time promoting a 
society that rejects drugs because of their devastating 
effects on health and society.
We are already taking steps. We welcome the fact 
that two days ago we supported the Global Call to Action 
on  the  World  Drug  Problem,  acknowledging  that  it  is 
the task of all and requires that all countries, including 
those where consumption is increasing as well as those 
that produce chemical precursors, contribute. Under the 
leadership of the United States, 130 nations committed 
themselves  to  continuing  that  fight.  We  will  not  give 
up or accept as fate the addiction that is destroying the 
souls of so many young people.
Legality  also  means  overcoming  corruption. 
Corruption  is  a  threat  to  democracy,  social  values 
and institutions and must be tackled with full resolve. 
From  the  first  day  of  our  Government,  we  presented 
measures  to  Congress,  and  then,  in  response  to  the 
popular  clamour,  we  launched  an  ambitious  and 
essential  agenda  together  with  all  the  parties.  We 
showed the world that we are capable of uniting around 
national  goals.  I  call  on  the  international  community 
to  strengthen  all  sanctions  tools  and  mechanisms  to 
combat transnational corruption. Defeating corruption 
is a task that involves us all. We must do our utmost to 
expose those who are corrupt and to expedite their legal 
and social punishment.
Our  commitment  to  development,  our  pact  for 
Colombia,  also  seeks  to  promote  entrepreneurship 
and economic recovery. The Sustainable Development 
Goals support our agenda for a Colombia where science 
and  technology  are  driven  by  connectivity,  access  to 
capital, the development of the innovative economy and 
the promotion of research — a Colombia committed to 
protecting  biodiversity,  promoting  renewable  energy, 
reducing the individual carbon footprint and establishing 
a citizenship strengthened by steadfast ethics.
The  world  should  know  that  that  is  the  Colombia 
that  we  want  to  build  every  day.  We  will  work  to 
achieve  that  Colombia.  That  is  our  challenge  and  our 
motivation. For that reason, I must tell the world that 
those goals face a huge challenge.
That  threat  or  challenge  that  our  country  is 
experiencing today is the thousands of fearful faces of 
those  who  are  cold  to  the  bone,  with  hunger  in  their 
stomachs and grief for their homeland. It is the challenge 
of  people  who,  at  this  very  moment,  are  walking  in 
the  open  and  into  the  unknown  on  Colombia’s  roads. 
They  are  our  Venezuelan  brothers  who  are  fleeing 
a  dictatorship.  Many  of  them  are  innocent  children, 
unprotected and exposed to the tragedy of exile. While, 
over a period of six years, the conflict in Syria has led 
to an influx of 600,000 migrants a year to Turkey alone, 
in less than two years Colombia has opened its doors to 
almost 1 million of our Venezuelan brothers. We have 
received  them  with  affection,  and  we  will  always  do 
so  despite  any  social  or  financial  obstacles,  because 
brotherhood unites us.
However,  we  must  call  a  spade  a  spade.  We  are 
experiencing  the  most  egregious  migration  crisis  in 
the region’s recent history on account of a dictatorship 
that  denied  freedoms.  Today  I  would  like  to  make  it 
clear that the self-determination of peoples cannot be 
manipulated  at  the  free  will  of  the  oppressors.  The 
world must act and unite so that that tragic flight comes 
to an end and a people can see hope flourish.
That  is  a  global  challenge.  The  end  of  the 
dictatorship  and  the  return  to  democracy  and  full 
freedom  are  the  only  viable  way.  That  is  why  the 
international community must immediately demand the 
release of political prisoners, quickly identify the best 
solutions to the crisis and prevent such desolation and 
despair from continuing to increase.
I ask that the United Nations hear our request. We 
are  pleased  that  it  listened  to  Colombia’s  request  and 
that the Secretary-General appointed Eduardo Stein as 
Joint  Special  Representative  for  Venezuelan  refugees 
and  migrants,  thereby  elevatingthis  debate.  I  also 
thank all the countries that joined us yesterday at the 
high-level  meeting  convened  by  Colombia,  where  the 
regional commitment to addressing that humanitarian 
crisis was clear. Such measures must be accompanied 
by  the  establishment  of  a  multilateral  fund  to  care 
for  the  migrant  population,  which  is  a  victim  of  that 
dictatorship. That is why we must promote the proposal 
announced  by  the  Inter-American  Development  Bank 
and its President, Mr. Luis Alberto Moreno. However, it 
is equally important that all international mechanisms 
be implemented in order to ensure that those who caused 
that  terrible  tragedy  are  reported  to,  and  investigated 
and punished by, the International Criminal Court.
It is an honour for me to address the Assembly, to 
set  out  the  vision  that  we  have  for  Colombia,  to  call 
for global solidarity before the Venezuelan people and 
to  issue  them  an  invitation.  Today  more  than  ever, 
the  world  needs  cooperation  and  multilateralism.  It 
24/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
is  time  to  come  together  and  not  to  isolate  ourselves. 
It  is  time  to  make  trade  and  cooperation  the  path  of 
shared opportunities.
We  must  continue  to  move  forward  in  a  world 
where  partnerships  make  it  possible  to  mitigate  the 
effects of climate change, strengthen fair trade, tackle 
corruption and transnational crime, create employment 
opportunities, put an end to discrimination and promote 
the idea of producing while conserving and conserving 
while producing.
The Colombia based on legality, entrepreneurship 
and equality that we wish to build is already under way. 
Moreover,  we  will  not  allow  anything  to  snatch  from 
us the hope of being a country that thinks big and that 
dreams  of  a  better  tomorrow  and  of  working  for  the 
community of nations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Colombia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Iván Duque Márquez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of 
the Kingdom of Tonga
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Majesty the 
King of the Kingdom of Tonga.
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom of 
Tonga, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Majesty  King  Tupou  VI,  King  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Tonga,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
King  Tupou:  I  congratulate  Her  Excellency 
Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on her assumption 
of her presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-
third session. I assure her that the Tonga delegation will 
fully support her able leadership. I express our gratitude 
to her predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, 
for his successful and able leadership of the Assembly at 
its seventy-second session, in particular for making the 
work of the Assembly people-centred and striving for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet. 
I also commend His Excellency Mr. António Guterres 
for  his  ongoing  stewardship  of  the  Secretariat.  Tonga 
fully  supports  the  ongoing  work  he  is  undertaking 
on  reform,  including  the  all-important  review  of  the 
United  Nations  multi-country  offices  in  the  Pacific 
Islands region.
My delegation and I also wish to congratulate the 
President also on the chosen theme, which is both timely 
and  relevant.  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to 
all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities 
for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies” aptly 
reflects who we are as a collective in ensuring the work 
of the United Nations has meaning to those that matter 
most  —  our  peoples.  We  welcome  this  theme  as  the 
guiding principle for our work during this session.
In  contributing  towards  the  implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
its  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  including  the 
internationally  agreed  blueprint  for  the  sustainable 
development of small island developing States (SIDS), 
the Samoa Pathway, Tonga has made both agreements 
an  integral  part  of  its  national  planning  processes. 
The Government’s priority agenda from 2018 to 2021 
aligns  with  13  of  the  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, namely, Goals, 1 through 4, 6 through 9 and 13 
through 17.
The  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  remains  an  important  means,  which 
Tonga  endorses  for  the  follow-up,  monitoring  and 
accountability  of  commitment  by  Member  States 
through voluntary national reviews, which are linked to 
the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. 
Tonga  looks  forward  to  presenting  its  first  voluntary 
national  report  to  the  High-level  Political  Forum 
in 2019.
The High-level Political Forum will also dedicate 
a  day  at  its  high-level  ministerial  segment  to  the 
mid-term review of the Samoa Pathway in 2019. Tonga 
was  pleased  to  host  the  Pacific  regional  preparatory 
meeting for the mid-term review of the Samoa Pathway 
in June, the outcome report of which forms the latest 
iteration of the Pacific region’s sustainable development 
aspirations. Tonga looks forward to engaging with other 
SIDS and partners in Samoa at the end of next month to 
produce the final interregional report for the midterm 
review of the Samoa Pathway for consideration at the 
High-level Political Forum next year.
18-29871
25/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
In 
the 
that  regard,  we  recognize 
important 
contribution of the United Nations Office of the High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States,  the  United  Nations  Department  of 
Economic  and  Social  Affairs  and  the  United  Nations 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific Subregional Office for the Pacific.
Tonga  welcomes  the  convening  of  the  third  high-
level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention 
and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs) 
tomorrow.  Combating  the  threat  that  NCDs  poses 
to  individuals,  families  and  communities  has  been 
recognized as grossly underfunded given its magnitude.
We in Tonga are pleased to inform the Assembly of 
commendable reductions in the prevalence of tobacco 
smoking and alcohol consumption. Tongan people are 
eating  healthier  food  and  involved  more  in  physical 
activities.  We  are,  however,  not  without  challenges, 
for  example,  as  shown  in  rising  obesity  rates.  The 
Tongan Government is addressing the issue by making 
unhealthy  food  choices  more  expensive  and  healthier 
food choices cheaper for the Tongan public.
Climate  change  continues  to  pose  significant 
security threats to us as island States. In Nauru earlier 
this  month,  Pacific  leaders  endorsed  an  expanded 
concept of security in their communiqué and the Boe 
Declaration,  linking,  inter  alia,  climate  change  and 
threats  to  international  peace  and  security.  In  that 
regard, Tonga welcomes the establishment of the Group 
of Friends on Climate and Security to further highlight 
the  nexus  between  the  threats  of  climate  change  with 
threats to international peace and security.
We  note  with  concern  the  devastating  impacts  of 
climate change on our marine environment. Baselines 
that  determine  our 
territorial  boundaries,  once 
established  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, should not be affected and should 
remain unchanged, despite the effects of sea-level rise. 
Our sovereignty must not be compromised by climate 
change. We welcome the work of the International Law 
Commission  on  this  critically  important  and  timely 
issue for consideration by the Sixth Committee.
Tonga looks forward to taking our important work 
forward  at  the  twenty-fourth  session  of  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
under the leadership of Poland in December. We seek 
to  strongly  address  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate 
change and the urgent need for innovation in adaptation 
for SIDS.
Tonga engaged in this year’s first intergovernmental 
conference on the conservation and sustainable use of 
biological diversity in the high seas and the seabed. We 
are  hopeful  that  a  gradual  convergence  of  views  will 
result in a zero-draft of a legally binding instrument for 
consideration  at  the  second  and  third  meetings  of  the 
intergovernmental conference, to be held in March and 
August 2019, respectively.
Tonga  has  also  continued 
its  engagement  at 
the  International  Seabed  Authority  in  ensuring  the 
appropriate  management  of  the  resources  of  the  area. 
Tonga is grateful to the members of the Authority for 
its  re-election  this  year  to  the  Council,  and  we  look 
forward to working together on the development of the 
important  draft  exploitation  regulations.  Tonga  also 
looks forward to hosting the first regional International 
Seabed  Authority  workshop,  in  early  2019,  to  explore 
the benefits of seabed mining to the blue economy of 
Pacific  Islands  and  to  progressing  development  of  a 
regional treaty on deep sea mining.
We  would  like  to  acknowledge  Italy’s  ongoing 
partnership  with  Tonga  through  the  joint  committee 
in  strengthening  Tonga’s  capacity  in  the  field  of  the 
environment and the ocean. We also acknowledge the 
work of the secretariat of the Pacific Community, the 
Commonwealth  Secretariat  and  the  Pew  Charitable 
Trust on the regional treaty.
Tonga  commissioned  its  first  independent  power 
producer-owned  solar  farm  last  year  and  strongly 
believes  that  it  can  achieve  its  50  per  cent  renewable 
energy target by 2020 through more and stronger public-
private  partnership  arrangements.  Tonga  wishes  to 
acknowledge the partnership it has established with the 
Government of Austria, the United Nations Industrial 
Development Organization and the Pacific Community 
to  establish  the  Pacific  Centre  for  Renewable  Energy 
and  Energy  Efficiency,  a  specialized  regional  entity 
to  support  private-sector  investments  in  renewable 
energy  and  energy  efficiency  in  the  Pacific  islands. 
We would also like to recognize and acknowledge the 
announcement made by the Government of Norway of 
its commitment to provide $2 million in support of the 
important work of the Centre.
Finally,  sustainable  development  —  whether  it 
be,  inter  alia,  through  good  health  and  well-being, 
climate action, life below water or affordable and clean 
26/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
energy  —  can  be  realized  only  through  international 
peace and security. We continue to look to the Security 
Council  to  protect  the  innocent  from  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security  in  any  form,  be  they 
traditional  threats  such  as  armed  conflict  or  newer 
threats such as climate change, to ensure that no one is 
left behind.
May Almighty God guide and bless the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  all  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  and  their  respective  Governments 
and peoples.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank His Majesty 
the King of the Kingdom of Tonga for the statement he 
has just made.
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom 
of  Tonga,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Ibrahim Keita, President of the 
Republic of Mali
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim 
Boubacar Keita, President of the Republic of Mali, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Keita (spoke in French): At the outset, I 
wish to convey the most cordial greetings of the Malian 
people,  from  Kayes  to  Kidal  and  from  Sikasso  to 
Taoudenni, passing through Konna in the Mopti region. 
I would like to extend my warm congratulations to Her 
Excellency  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on 
her  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its seventy-third session. That is a choice that honours 
her and, beyond that, her beautiful country of Ecuador, 
with  which  Mali  has  excellent  relations  in  terms  of 
cooperation.  I  wish  to  say  to  the  President  that,  with 
the help of the United Nations and of the international 
community,  Mali  has  today  reached  a  significant 
milestone  in  its  destiny  following  the  successful 
presidential elections we recently held.
As is customary, I should also like to congratulate the 
President’s  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák  of  Slovakia,  for  the  outstanding  results  he 
achieved during the seventy-second session. Let me also 
express my deepest gratitude to the Secretary-General 
of  our  common  Organization,  Mr.  António  Guterres, 
for his leadership and many initiatives aimed at further 
strengthening  the  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the 
United Nations.
Before continuing, I wish to pay shining tribute to 
the memory of the late Kofi Annan, former Secretary-
General,  who  was  taken  from  us  on  18  August.  I 
remember him as a great African diplomat who worked 
throughout  his  life  to  promote  international  peace, 
security and development across the world.
Mali  welcomes  the  President’s  decision  to  place 
the  current  session  under  the  theme  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies”.  This  theme  is  certainly  of 
paramount  importance  for  all  States  Members  of  our 
Organization. Its aims and principles remain relevant, 
including in the areas of preventing and managing the 
many crises that we, the peoples of the United Nations, 
face.
For  its  part,  Mali  commends  the  immense  and 
multifaceted  contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to 
its  ongoing  stabilization  process.  I  would  like  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  women  and  men  of  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Mali for their commitment and sacrifice in a complex 
and difficult security context.
As leaders we have a collective responsibility to do 
more and better in order to render our Organization even 
more relevant and effective for all. To do so,  the United 
Nations  requires  reforms  that  will  lead  to  a  peaceful, 
inclusive,  equitable  and  sustainable 
international 
community. In that regard, Mali welcomes the reforms 
initiated  by  the  Secretary-General  in  the  spheres  of 
development, peace and security.
the  Security  Council  and 
However, we need to reinforce those initiatives by 
agreeing to also reform some of the principal organs, 
including 
the  General 
Assembly, including when it comes to their respective 
compositions and working methods. It is also at the cost 
of those essential reforms that we will collectively be 
able to fulfil the deepest aspirations of our peoples and 
18-29871
27/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, 
as stipulated in the Charter of the United Nations.
the gradual provision of the necessary basic services so 
that the people can enjoy the dividends of peace.
is  devoted 
The  year  2018 
to  pursuing  and 
strengthening  the  democratic  and  republican  steps 
taken  by  Mali  and  its  people  towards  peace,  stability 
and development to the benefit of all populations of the 
Sahel region, and indeed beyond. Despite the numerous 
challenges  that  my  country  is  facing,  the  presidential 
elections were able to take place within the constitutional 
timelines  on  29  July  and  12  August,  in  conditions 
welcomed by the entire international community. The 
inclusive  nature  of  the  organization  of  the  elections, 
attested to by the participation of all political and civil 
society stakeholders, allowed citizens to freely express 
their choice and to prove the political, democratic and 
republican maturity of the Malian people.
For my part, upon the conclusion of the elections, 
I took full measure of the confidence that the Malian 
nation  had  just  renewed  in  me.  That  is  why  I  am 
committed to restoring trust between the State and its 
citizens  to  further  improve  the  country’s  governance. 
Moreover, I will work relentlessly for the diligent and 
inclusive  implementation  of  the  Agreement  for  Peace 
and  Reconciliation  in  Mali,  outcome  of  the  Algiers 
process, which, I will not cease to repeat, is the only 
alternative for my country to reconnect with peace and 
stability, a prerequisite for all development. To achieve 
those  goals  in  the  context  of  my  country,  a  sacred 
union of all forces of the nation is required. Likewise, 
I reiterate my unwavering commitment to give pride of 
place to dialogue and consultation in the management 
of public affairs.
I remain determined to advance the peace process in 
Mali to ensure that my country emerges from the worst 
crisis in its history. Therefore, under my authority, the 
Government and other Malian actors, with the support 
of  our  partners,  have  achieved  significant  progress 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Agreement  for  Peace 
and Reconciliation. Among these major achievements, 
I wish to underscore that there have been no clashes or 
confrontations  between  the  Malian  armed  forces  and 
armed  movements  since  the  Agreement  on  Peace  and 
Reconciliation in Mali was signed in May 2015. I also 
happily  recall  the  restoration  of  Malian  authority  to 
Kidal and other areas of the country. The presence of 
the State in these regions, which were hit hard by the 
crisis, has made it possible, among other things, to open 
classes  for  the  benefit  of  children  and  contributed  to 
of 
ongoing 
operationalization 
Moreover, I note with satisfaction the establishment 
and 
territorial 
communities  in  the  Ménaka  and  Taoudenni  regions, 
the  establishment  of  interim  authorities  in  the  five 
northern  regions,  the  launch  of  the  operations  of 
the  Operational  Coordination  Mechanism  in  Kidal, 
Timbuktu  and  Gao,  and  progress  in  the  processes  of 
disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration  and 
security-sector reform.
I am fully aware that these gains are fragile. I am 
also  aware  that  we  need  to  do  more  and  better.  This 
is  the  purpose  of  the  road  map  of  22  March.  I  have 
instructed the Government to honour its commitments 
pursuant to these mechanisms. However, I must stress 
that  political  will  alone  will  not  be  enough  to  fulfil 
all  the  commitments  undertaken  in  the  Agreement. 
Adequate technical and financial support will also be 
required. I take this opportunity to reiterate my call for 
the  effective  and  rapid  mobilization  of  the  resources 
pledged  by  our  partners  with  a  view  to  helping  us 
achieve all commitments contained in the road map by 
the agreed deadlines.
I can also assure the Assembly that the people of 
Mali are most grateful for the active solidarity of the 
international  community  in  the  form  of  the  presence 
and  support  of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali, the European 
forces,  the  French  Operation  Barkhane,  the  Group 
of  Five  for  the  Sahel  (G-5  Sahel),  the  African  Union, 
the Economic Community of West African States and 
neighbouring countries.
In  addition  to  the  devastating  effects  of  climate 
change on the living conditions of our population, the 
Sahel has for several years faced terrorism, transnational 
organized crime and trafficking of all kinds, especially 
of drugs, arms, illicit goods and migrants, and money-
laundering. A war for the anti-Christ, from before the 
Prophet; a war waged on behalf of darkness, in which 
death is not an accident, a battlefield casualty or even 
or a supreme sacrifice but the ultimate goal — that is 
what we are dealing with in the Sahel. It is all too easy 
to understand the urgency of the universal call to fight 
against terrorism.
We established the G-5 Sahel, comprising Burkina 
Faso,  Chad,  Mali,  Mauritania  and  the  Niger,  in 
Nouakchott  in  November  2014,  to  pool  our  efforts  to 
28/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
address our region’s security and development issues, 
having  fully  grasped  the  link  between  the  fragility 
of  States  and  the  precariousness  our  populations  at 
times experience, and how certain interests may seek 
to  use  it  to  subversive  ends.  However,  the  G-5  Sahel 
Joint  Force  is  struggling  to  become  fully  operational 
as it lacks the appropriate mandate and, in particular, 
sufficient funding.
We  believe  that  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  the 
Sahel  is  an  important  contribution  to  global  security. 
That  is  why  we  continue  to  ask  the  Security  Council 
to  authorize  the  deployment  of  the  Force  under 
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
with  adequate,  sustainable  and  predictable  funding, 
including through the United Nations, so as to enable it 
to carry out his mandate consistently and effectively. In 
the same vein, we invite our bilateral and multilateral 
partners, who made pledges of financial contributions 
in February at the Brussels Conference, to honour those 
commitments to the G-5 Sahel Joint Force. In parallel 
with  the  security  response,  the  G-5  Sahel  is  working 
to  implement  its  Priority  Investment  Programme  to 
address development challenges, which are among the 
root causes of instability in our shared region.
At the national level, I have made the fight against 
poverty  one  of  the  priorities  of  my  second  five-year 
term.  During  my  swearing-in,  on  4  September,  I 
pledged before the Malian people to do all in my power 
to  optimize  our  system  of  national  solidarity  so  as  to 
forge  a  Mali  where  no  one  is  left  behind.  I  want  to 
launch a new social model based on equality and social 
justice and that will create the conditions for everyone 
to  succeed.  Promoting  Malian  youth  will  be  at  the 
centre of my work over the next five years. I have made 
young people the great cause of my second term. I will 
commit  to  a  national  youth  pact  through  significant 
investments  in  renewing  our  education  and  training 
system, and to promote employment.
In the same vein, I will not only continue but step 
up  the  implementation  of  major  road  infrastructure, 
agriculture, water, energy and social housing projects. 
I  remain  convinced  that  implementing  these  priority 
actions will accelerate the attainment of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  at  the  national  level.  In 
that regard, Mali is pleased to have presented in July, 
here  in  New  York,  its  voluntary  national  report  on 
SDG implementation.
As  a  country  of  origin  and  transit  as  well  as  a 
destination for migrants, Mali welcomes the conclusion 
of negotiations on the global compact for safe, orderly 
and  regular  migration  —  and,  I  would  add,  humane 
migration.  This  collective  decision  gives  hope  to  the 
250 million migrants throughout the world and, beyond 
them,  to  all  of  humankind  at  a  time  when  migration 
has  become  a  major  issue  for  all  States.  Mali  will, 
of  course,  play  an  active  role  at  the  international 
conference to be held in Marrakech in December with 
a  view  to  the  formal  adoption  of  the  global  compact 
for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration,  which  now 
offers  us  a  comprehensive  framework  for  managing 
migration governance globally. At the same time, Mali 
will  continue  to  shoulder  its  share  of  responsibility 
in  managing  migratory  flows,  in  accordance  with  its 
national migration policy.
Despite  our  domestic  situation,  the  people  and 
Government  of  Mali  remain  attuned  to  the  situation 
in  Africa  and  the  rest  of  the  world.  In  Africa,  we 
welcome  the  normalization  of  diplomatic  relations 
between Eritrea and Ethiopia, as well as the conclusion 
of  a  peace  agreement  between  our  brothers  in  South 
Sudan.  We  also  thoroughly  commend  the  successful 
holding of legislative elections in our fellow Republic 
of Mauritania, and praise the people of that brotherly 
and  friendly  nation  for  its  political  maturity  and 
commitment to democracy.
However, we are deeply concerned at the situation 
in  Libya,  which  regrettably  continues  to  negatively 
impact  the  security  and  stability  of  the  Sahel  region. 
In the light of this situation, which has lasted for too 
long, we call urgently on the international community 
to  persuade  the  Libyan  parties  to  prioritize  dialogue 
and seek a lasting solution to the crisis.
We are also following with concern the situation in 
the Middle East, especially in the occupied territories. 
The  people  of  Mali  reaffirm  their    support  to  the 
brotherly people of Palestine in their  legitimate struggle 
for  self-determination.  The  Government  of  Mali  calls 
for  the  resumption  of  Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations 
aimed at reaching a two-State solution, with Israel and 
Palestine living side by side in peace and within secure 
and internationally recognized borders.
In  humanitarian  terms,  Mali  is  concerned  about 
the precarious situation of the 65 million refugees and 
internally  displaced  persons  worldwide  as  a  result  of 
armed conflicts, natural disasters and climate change. 
18-29871
29/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
I  am  thinking  in  particular  of  my  compatriots  who 
are refugees in neighbouring countries, which I thank 
for  their  hospitality  and  generosity.  I  assure  those 
compatriots  that  the  Government  will  spare  no  effort 
in continuing to assist them and to create the conditions 
for them to return home in safety and dignity.
Mali has never faltered in its belief in international 
solidarity and cherishes its cooperation with the United 
Nations,  which  today  provides  us  with  a  range  of 
support.  Mali,  which  I  have  the  privilege  of  leading 
today, reaffirms its commitment to playing its full part 
in building a peaceful, equitable and prosperous world 
for all.
In conclusion, I reaffirm the profound gratitude of 
the  people  and  theGovernment  of  Mali  to  the  United 
Nations and our bilateral and multilateral partners for 
their unwavering support to the peace process in Mali. 
For my part, I reaffirm my full commitment to sparing 
no  effort  to  ensure  that  the  Agreement  on  Peace  and 
Reconciliation  in  Mali,  emanating  from  the  Algiers 
process, is implemented diligently and fully.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Mali for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. João Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço, 
President of the Republic of Angola
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Angola.
Mr.  João  Manuel  Gonçalves  Lourenço,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. João 
Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço, President of the Republic 
of Angola, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Lourenço 
in  Portuguese; 
English interpretation provided by the delegation): The 
General Assembly is holding its seventy-third session 
at a special moment as we pay tribute to two towering 
(spoke 
figures  of  world  politics,  both  sons  of  Africa:  Nelson 
Mandela and Kofi Annan.
I 
take 
Today, exactly one year since my inauguration as 
President of the Republic of Angola, I have the honour, 
on  behalf  of  the  Angolan  people,  to  address  from 
this rostrum for the first time the entire international 
community, represented here by its highest dignitaries. 
I  salute  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  present 
here, as well as the leaders of the various international 
organizations and bodies, whom I believe to be working 
directly for the future of our planet.
to 
the  entire 
international  community  for  its  support  for  peace 
and reconciliation in my country, Angola. I also offer 
my  particular  gratitude  to  the  United  Nations  for  the 
decisive  role  it  played  in  establishing  lasting  peace 
in  Angola  through  two  peace  missions  —  the  United 
Nations  Angola  Verification  Mission  and  the  United 
Nations  Observer  Mission  in  Angola  —  and  for  the 
important work of its specialized agencies, funds and 
programmes,  in  particular  UNICEF  and  the  World 
Food Programme.
this  opportunity 
thank 
We also believe that Angola’s experience in building 
peace  and  pursuing  reconciliation  between  parties  in 
conflict has served as a positive example for the United 
Nations,  providing  useful  insights  for  approaching 
peace processes in other parts of the world. Angola has 
unique experience in building and maintaining lasting 
peace, continuously deepening national reconciliation, 
social  inclusion  and  mutual  forgiveness,  and  healing 
the wounds of the armed conflict, which ended almost 
16 years ago.
took 
(Guyana),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Ten-Pow 
the Chair.
We  gather  in  the  General  Assembly  to  discuss 
and  resolve  the  most  serious  problems  and  conflicts 
that  threaten  the  very  survival  of  humankind.  I  am 
referring to the hunger and poverty that affect millions 
of  citizens  around  the  world,  global  warming  and  its 
consequences,  mass  migration  and  especially  illegal 
migration, trafficking in drugs, in human organs, and 
in children and women for forced prostitution, religious 
intolerance  and  extremism,  terrorism,  inter-ethnic 
armed  conflicts,  war  among  nations  or  even  the 
uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Established  73  years  ago  with 
the  declared 
purpose  of  restoring  universal  peace  and  harmony, 
30/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
conferring  equal  rights  on  nations  large  and  small, 
and  establishing  a  world  of  cooperation,  progress 
and  well-being,  the  United  Nations  is  still  far  from 
achieving the goals enshrined in its Charter. While it 
is true that, immediately following that establishment, 
the  immediate  polarization  of  the  planet  into  two 
antagonistic  political  and  economic  systems  hindered 
the 
favouring 
international peace and security, it would be unfair to 
deny that the United Nations has played a commendable 
role  in  ending  colonialism,  promoting  human  rights, 
supporting international development and cooperation, 
and  managing  and  containing  flashpoints  of  tension 
around the world.
operationalization 
principles 
of 
Despite  the  progress  made  to  date,  we  must 
acknowledge  the  long-standing  conflicts  yet  to  be 
settled, such as that between the Israelis and Palestinians 
in the Middle East, which can be resolved only through 
a  solution  based  on  two  States  living  peacefully  side 
by  side,  as  advocated  by  the  United  Nations  and  the 
overwhelming majority of its Member States.
We welcome the recent efforts of the United States 
of  America,  North  Korea  and  South  Korea,  with  the 
contribution of the People’s Republic of China, towards 
the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  which 
has  considerably  reduced  tensions  that  threatened  to 
trigger a nuclear conflict that would endanger not only 
the region but international security in general.
With the end of the so-called Cold War, symbolized 
by the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the momentous 
emergence of a new political paradigm oriented towards 
multilateralism,  the  United  Nations  eagerly  resumed 
its work towards building a peaceful world order. We 
believe  that,  by  working  diligently  together,  we  can 
achieve this goal.
Today, in a time of ascendant globalization, there 
is  no  justification  for  the  continued  proliferation  of 
apparently  unresolvable  conflicts  of  varying  scale  in 
several parts of the world, or for entire populations to 
continue suffering their tragic consequences, virtually 
abandoned  to  their  fate.  It  is  against  this  backdrop 
that  many  voices  are  demanding  profound  reform  of 
the United Nations so that it can better reflect today’s 
world, where the emergence of new centres of economic 
and  financial  power  and  technological  and  scientific 
advances  fully  justify  changes  to  the  Organization’s 
structures  and  intervention  mechanisms,  as  well  as 
the  enlargement  and  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
to  better  represent  the  various  geopolitical  regions  of 
our planet.
they  domestic, 
The  political  configuration  of 
today’s  world, 
in  which  local,  regional  and  intra-State  conflicts 
represent  the  principal  focus  of  international  tensions 
and  threats  to  peace,  requires  the  United  Nations  to 
play  an  increasingly  active  role  in  promoting  and 
assisting  political,  social  and  economic  processes 
of  democratization.  This  is  the  best  way  to  resolve 
conflicts,  be 
international,  ethnic 
or  religious,  which  in  most  cases  arise  as  a  result  of 
policies  of  authoritarianism  or  exclusion,  intolerance, 
radicalism  or  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
sovereign States. International terrorism, transnational 
organized  crime,  illegal  immigration,  xenophobia, 
trafficking in people and in drugs, and other scourges 
have  today  reached  new  proportions,  affecting  the 
quality  of  life  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  planet  and 
calling for coordination at the highest level among all 
States Members of our Organization.
the  rich  and 
The seventy-third session of the General Assembly is 
being held under the theme “Making the United Nations 
relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies”. The United Nations should therefore attach 
priority to promoting and upholding human rights and 
strive  to  solve  humankind’s  global  problems  —  such 
as those relating to security, the environment, reducing 
inequality  between 
the  poor,  and 
development  —  with  a  view  to  safeguarding  world 
peace. We advocate the decentralization of the global 
financial system, based both on the promotion of trade 
and  regional  economic  integration  systems,  and  the 
enhancement of regional financial institutions on terms 
that allow for more sustainable economic development.
Throughout our history as an independent country, 
our  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  has  always 
been a constant; it has helped us not only to relaunch 
our  economy,  but  also  to  engage  in  seeking  to  build 
peace,  democracy  and  development  in  southern  and 
central Africa. The Republic of Angola stands ready to 
continue supporting all efforts to promote cooperation 
among  all  nations  of  the  world  in  building  peace  and 
strengthening  cooperation, 
investment 
relations at the bilateral and multilateral levels.
trade  and 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Angola for the statement he has just made.
18-29871
31/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
Mr.  João  Manuel  Gonçalves  Lourenço,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Miguel Díaz-Canel Bermúdez, 
President of the Councils of State and of Ministers 
of the Republic of Cuba
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Councils  of 
State and of Ministers of the Republic of Cuba.
Mr.  Miguel  Díaz-Canel  Bermúdez,  President 
of  the  Councils  of  State  and  of  Ministers  of  the 
Republic  of  Cuba,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  Díaz-Canel 
Bermúdez,  President  of  the  Councils  of  State  and  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Cuba, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Bermúdez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is 
impossible  to  stand  here  speaking  from  this  rostrum 
on  behalf  of  Cuba  and  not  recall  historic  moments 
before the General Assembly that are among our most 
cherished  memories.  Fidel  Castro,  Ernesto  Guevara, 
Raúl  Castro  Ruz  and  the  Chancellor  of  Dignity,  Raúl 
Roa, to mention only the most illustrious, here raised 
their voices on behalf not only of our people but also 
of  other  non-aligned  peoples  of  Latin  America  and 
Caribbean,  Africa  and  Asia,  together  with  whom 
we  have  fought  for  more  than  half  a  century  for  a 
fair  international  order,  that  is  still  far  from  having 
been achieved.
That  failure  is  absurd  but  consistent  with  the 
irrationality of a world in which the richest 0.7 per cent 
of the population can claim 46 per cent of all wealth, 
while  the  poorest  70  per  cent  of  the  population  has 
access to only 2.7 per cent of that wealth, 3.46 billion 
people survive in poverty, 821 million live in hunger, 
758  million  are  illiterate  and  844  million  lack  basic 
services,  such  as  drinking  water.  All  these  figures 
are,  of  course,  prepared  and  regularly  manipulated 
by  global  organizations,  but  it  seems  that  they  have 
failed to raise sufficient awareness among the so-called 
international community.
These  facts  are  not  the  result  of  socialism,  as 
the  President  of  the  United  States  said  in  this  Hall 
yesterday  (see  A/73/PV.6).  They  are  consequences  of 
capitalism,  especially  imperialism  and  neoliberalism, 
of the egoism and exclusion inherent to that system, and 
of an economic, political, social and cultural paradigm 
that concentrates wealth in the hands of a minority as a 
significant majority pay the price through exploitation 
and poverty.
Capitalism  financed  colonialism;  gave  rise  to 
fascism,  terrorism  and  apartheid;  and  spread  war 
and  conflict,  violations  of  the  sovereignty  or  self-
determination of peoples, and the repression of workers, 
minorities,  refugees  and  migrants.  Capitalism  runs 
counter to solidarity and democratic participation. The 
patterns of production and consumption characteristic 
of  capitalism  promote  plundering  and  militarism, 
threaten peace, lead to violations of human rights; and 
pose the greatest danger to the ecological balance of the 
planet and the survival of the human race.
No one should mistakenly believe that humankind 
lacks the material, financial or technological resources 
to eradicate poverty, hunger, preventable diseases and 
other scourges. What is missing is political will among 
the industrialized countries, which have the moral duty, 
the historical responsibility and abundant resources to 
solve  the  most  pressing  global  problems.  The  truth  is 
that while funding shortfalls are cited as justification 
for  failing  to  attain  the  goals  and  targets  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  or  address  the 
increasing impacts of climate change, $1.74 trillion was 
wasted on military expenditure in 2017 — the highest 
figure since the end of the Cold War.
Climate change is another unavoidable reality and 
a question of survival for the human race, especially for 
small island developing States. Some of its effects are 
already irreversible. Scientific evidence shows that the 
average temperature has increased by 1.1°C compared 
to pre-industrial levels, and that nine out of 10 people 
living  in  urban  areas  breathe  polluted  air.  However, 
the  United  States,  one  of  the  major  polluters,  both 
historically and today, refuses to join the international 
community  in  implementing  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change. In so doing, it endangers the very lives 
of  future  generations  and  the  survival  of  all  species, 
including humans.
Furthermore, as if there were not enough threats to 
humankind and its dazzling creations, it is a fact that 
military and nuclear hegemony not only continues but 
is extending its reach, dashing the hopes of the majority 
32/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
of peoples for general and complete disarmament. Cuba 
shares this ideal and, as evidence of its commitment to 
that aim, on 31 January became the fifth State to ratify 
the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
It  is  impossible  for  the  Organization,  born  of  the 
desire  to  overcome  through  dialogue  among  nations 
the destruction wrought by an horrific war, to remain 
silent  about  the  dangers  that  threaten  us  all  with  the 
exacerbation  of  local  conflicts,  wars  of  aggression 
disguised  as  humanitarian  intervention,  the  forceful 
overthrow  of 
so-called 
soft  coups  and  interference  in  other  States’  internal 
affairs — all of which are established behaviours on the 
part of certain Powers, under a wild range of pretexts.
sovereign  Governments, 
International  cooperation  to  promote  and  protect 
human rights for all is imperative, but it is manipulated 
in a discriminatory and selective way in an attempt to 
dominate, violating the rights of peoples to peace, self-
determination and development.
Cuba rejects the militarization of outer space and 
cyberspace,  as  well  as  the  covert  and  illegal  use  of 
information and communication technologies to attack 
other States.
Multilateralism and full respect for the norms and 
principles  of  international  law  to  advance  towards  a 
democratic,  equitable  multipolar  world  are  necessary 
to ensure peaceful coexistence, maintain international 
peace  and  security  and  find  lasting  solutions  to 
systemic problems.
increasingly  characterize 
Running  counter  to  this  vision,  threats  or  use 
of  force,  unilateralism,  pressure,  retaliation  and 
sanctions  —  which 
the 
behaviour and rhetoric of the United States Government 
and  its  abusive  use  of  the  veto  power  in  the  Security 
Council  to  impose  its  political  agenda  —  represent 
immense challenges that threaten the very institution of 
the United Nations. Why do we not simply implement 
the  promised  strengthening  of  the  General  Assembly 
as  the  principal  deliberative,  decision-making  and 
most  representative  organ?  Security  Council  reform 
must not be delayed or sidelined; it must be updated to 
reflect the times and democratize its membership and 
working methods.
We reiterate today what Commander-in-Chief of the 
Cuban revoluation Fidel Castro Ruz said on the occasion 
of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  His 
sentiments  reflect  the  most  noble  aspirations  of  the 
majority of humankind:
“We lay claim to a world without hegemonism, 
without nuclear weapons, without interventionism, 
without  racism,  without  national  or  religious 
hatred,  without  outrageous  acts  against 
the 
sovereignty  of  any  country,  a  world  with  respect 
for  the  independence  and  self-determination  of 
peoples,  a  world  without  universal  models  that 
totally disregard the traditions and culture of all the 
components of mankind.
“We  lay  claim  to  a  world  without  ruthless 
blockades  that  cause  the  death  of  men,  women 
and  children,  young  and  old,  like  noiseless  atom 
bombs.” (A/50/PV.35, pp. 19-20)
More  than  20  years  have  passed  since  that  demand 
was  made,  and  none  of  those  ills  has  been  cured;  on 
the  contrary,  they  have  got  worse.  We  have  every 
right to ask why and the duty to insist on effective and 
fair solutions.
Our  Americas  are  today  the  scene  of  persistent 
threats that are incompatible with the proclamation of 
Latin America and the Caribbean as a zone of peace, 
signed  in  Havana  in  2014  by  the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government at the second Summit of the Community 
of Latin American and Caribbean States. The current 
United States Administration has proclaimed the validity 
of the Monroe Doctrine and, in a new deployment of its 
imperial  policy  in  the  region,  is  attacking  Venezuela 
with particular cruelty.
In this menacing climate, we reiterate our absolute 
support  for  the  Bolivarian  and  Chavista  revolution, 
the  civic-military  union  of  the  Venezuelan  people 
and  its  legitimate  democratic  Government,  led  by 
Constitutional  President  Nicolás  Maduros  Moros. 
We  reject  the  interventionist  intent  of  the  sanctions 
against  Venezuela,  aimed  at  economic  strangulation 
and damaging Venezuelan families. We reject calls to 
isolate  that  sovereign  nation,  which  is  doing  no  harm 
to anyone.
We  likewise  reject  the  attempts  to  destabilize  the 
Government of Nicaragua, a peaceful country that has 
made  remarkable  social  and  economic  progress  and 
improved security for its citizens.
We denounce the political imprisonment of former 
President  Luiz  Inácio  Lula  da  Silva  and  the  decision 
18-29871
33/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
to  prevent  the  people  from  voting  for  Brazil’s  most 
popular leader and electing him to the presidency.
We stand in solidarity with the Caribbean nations 
demanding legitimate reparations for the horrific legacy 
of  slavery  as  well  as  the  fair,  special  and  differential 
treatment they deserve.
We  reaffirm  our  long-standing  support  for  the 
self-determination  and  independence  of  the  brotherly 
people of Puerto Rico.
We  support  Argentina’s 
to 
sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia 
Islands and South Sandwich Islands.
legitimate  claim 
We reiterate our full support for a comprehensive, 
just  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict,  based  on  the  establishment  of  two  States, 
permitting the Palestinian people to exercise their right 
to self-determination in a sovereign independent State 
based on the pre-1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital. We reject the unilateral action of the United 
States  in  establishing  its  diplomatic  representation  in 
the  city  of  Jerusalem,  which  has  further  heightened 
tensions in the region. We condemn the barbarous acts 
committed  by  the  Israeli  forces  against  the  civilian 
population in Gaza.
We  reaffirm  our  steadfast  solidarity  with  the 
Sahrawi  people  and  support  the  questfor  a  definitive 
solution to the question of Western Sahara that allows 
them to exercise their right to self-determination and to 
live in peace in their territory.
We support the search for a peaceful and negotiated 
solution  to  the  situation  imposed  on  Syria,  without 
foreign interference and in full respect for the country’s 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  We  reject  any 
direct  or  indirect  intervention  executed  without  the 
agreement of the legitimate authorities of that country.
towards 
the  Russian  border  is  provoking  significant  danger, 
aggravated further still by the imposition of arbitrary 
sanctions, which we reject.
The  continued  expansion  of  NATO 
We  demand  that  the  nuclear  agreement  with  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran be implemented.
the  process  of 
We  welcome 
inter-Korean 
rapprochement 
represents 
the  path  towards  lasting  peace,  reconciliation  and 
stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  At  the  same  time, 
we  strongly  condemn  the  imposition  of  unilateral 
and  dialogue,  which 
and  unjust  sanctions  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and foreign interference in Korean 
internal affairs.
The violation of international trade rules, and the 
imposition  of  sanctions  against  China,  the  European 
Union and other countries will result in harmful effects, 
in particular for developing countries.
We  favour  dialogue  and  cooperation,  thanks  to 
which we can report today that the Political Dialogue 
and  Cooperation  Agreement  between  the  European 
Union  and  Cuba  has  provisionally  entered  into  force, 
representing  a  strong  foundation  on  which  to  build 
beneficial ties between the parties.
The Government of the United States maintains its 
aggressive rhetoric towards Cuba and a policy aimed at 
subverting the political, social, economic and cultural 
system  of  my  country.  Contrary  to  the  interests  of 
both peoples and giving in to pressure from minority 
interests, the United States Government has engaged in 
fabricating pretexts to stoke false tensions and hostilities 
that  benefit  no  one.  This  is  in  stark  contrast  with  the 
fact  that  we  maintain  formal  diplomatic  relations 
and  participate  in  mutually  beneficial  cooperation 
programmes in a limited number of areas. Our peoples 
share increasingly close historical and cultural bonds, 
as expressed through the arts, sports, science and the 
environment,  among  other  areas.  The  potential  for  a 
healthy  commercial  relationship  is  well  recognized, 
and a genuine relationship of respect would benefit the 
interests of the entire region.
However,  the  defining  core  component  of  the 
bilateral  relationship  remains  the  embargo,  which  is 
intended  to  strangle  the  Cuban  economy,  generate 
poverty  and  disrupt  constitutional  order.  It  is  a  cruel 
policy  that  punishes  Cuban  families  and  the  entire 
nation. It is the most comprehensive and long-standing 
system of economic sanctions ever implemented against 
any country. It has been and remains a major obstacle 
to  the  country’s  development  and  to  the  realization 
of  the  aspirations  for  progress  and  well-being  of 
several generations of Cubans. As reiterated from this 
very  rostrum  for  many  years,  through  its  aggressive 
extraterritorial  implementation  the  embargo  seriously 
damages the sovereignty and interests of all countries.
On behalf of the Cuban people, I thank the General 
Assembly  for  its  near-unanimous  rejection  of  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  my  country.  However, 
34/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
that Government’s actions against my country go even 
further,  to  include  public  and  covert  programmes  of 
gross interference in Cuba’s internal affairs, using tens 
of millions of dollars officially allocated in the budget 
to that purpose, in violation of the norms and principles 
upon which this Organization is based and, in particular, 
of Cuba’s sovereignty as an independent nation.
Cuba stands ready to foster respectful and civilized 
relations with the United States Government, based on 
sovereign equality and mutual respect. That is the will 
of the Cuban people and an aspiration that we know to 
be shared by the majority of the citizens of the United 
States, especially the Cubans living there.
We  will  continue  tirelessly  demanding  the  end  of 
the cruel economic, commercial and financial embargo, 
the  return  of  the  territory  illegally  occupied  by  the 
United States Naval Base in Guantánamo and adequate 
compensation to our people for the thousands of deaths 
and  injuries  and  the  economic  and  property  damage 
caused by this aggression over so many years.
Cuba  will  always  remain  willing  to  engage  in 
dialogue  and  cooperation  based  on  respect  and  equal 
treatment. We will never make concessions that affect 
our  national  sovereignty  and  independence.  We  will 
not barter our principles or accept conditions. In spite 
of the embargo, the hostility and actions of the United 
States  to  impose  regime  change  on  Cuba,  the  Cuban 
revolution  remains  alive  and  strong,  steadfast  and 
faithful to its principles.
The  enemies  of  the  revolution  should  not  be 
deluded by the generational change in our Government. 
We represent continuity, not any sort of rupture. Cuba 
has  continued  taking  steps  to  improve  its  model  of 
economic  and  social  development  with  a  view  to 
building a sovereign, independent, socialist, democratic, 
prosperous and sustainable nation. That is the path that 
our  people  havefreely  chosen.  The  Cuban  people  will 
never return to the disgraces of the past, from which it 
freed itself by the greatest of sacrifices over 150 years 
of struggle for independence and dignity. In accordance 
with  the  will  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Cuban 
women  and  men,  we  shall  press  forward  in  the  work 
that began almost 60 years ago.
In  this  conviction,  we  have  initiated  a  process  of 
constitutional reform — a truly participatory democratic 
exercise with public discussion of the draft text which 
will  later  be  submitted  for  approval  by  referendum.  I 
am certain that there will be no changes in our strategic 
objectives and that the irrevocable nature of socialism 
will be reaffirmed. The principles of our foreign policy 
will  remain  unchanged.  As  the  First  Secretary  of  our 
Party, Mr. Raúl Castro Ruz, said, on the occasion of the 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations:
inequality, 
“The  international  community  can  always 
depend  on  Cuba  to  raise  its  honest  voice  against 
underdevelopment, 
injustice, 
discrimination  and  manipulation  and  for 
the 
establishment  of  a  more  equitable  and  fair 
international  order  that  really  focuses  on  the 
human  being,  his  dignity  and  well-being.”  (A/70/
PV.14, p.6)
The Cuba on behalf of which I speak today is proud 
to carry the torch of that independent sovereign policy, 
which is bound by links of brotherhood and solidarity 
to the world’s poor, who produce all the world’s wealth 
but  are  condemned  to  live  in  poverty  by  an  unjust 
world order under the cover of words like “democracy”, 
“freedom” and “human rights” — words which those in 
power have, in fact, emptied of all meaning.
I am moved to be speaking from the same rostrum 
from  which  Fidel  spoke  the  truth  so  powerfully  58 
years ago that it still resonates with the representatives 
of more than 190 nations who, rejecting extortion and 
pressure, year on year turn the voting screen a dignified 
green  with  lights  approving  our  demand  for  an  end 
to  the  embargo.  I  close  with  the  hope  that  the  noble 
aspirations shared by the majority of humankind may 
be realized before yet further generations take to this 
rostrum  to  demand  the  very  same  things  we  demand 
today and our historic predecessors did before us.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Councils 
of State and of Ministers of the Republic of Cuba for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Miguel  Díaz-Canel  Bermúdez,  President 
of  the  Councils  of  State  and  of  Ministers  of  the 
Republic of Cuba, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. George Manneh Weah, President of 
the Republic of Liberia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Liberia.
18-29871
35/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
Mr.  George  Manneh  Weah,  President  of  the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  George  Manneh  Weah, 
President of the Republic of Liberia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Weah:  I  am  honoured  to  address  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session on behalf 
of the Government and the people of Liberia. I should 
like  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly, and the Government and the people 
of Ecuador, on her election to serve as President of the 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  With  our  eyes 
on history, Liberia takes special note of the fact she is 
the fourth woman to serve as President of the General 
Assembly, and we welcome her election.
I  should  also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to 
Secretary-General António Guterres, whose dynamism 
and far-sighted leadership continues to strengthen the 
United Nations in the face of perennial global challenges.
Just  two  weeks  ago,  we  joined  millions  in  Ghana 
and  around  the  world  in  bidding  final  farewell  to 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  devoted 
his  life  to  peacemaking  and  conflict  resolution  —  a 
calling in which he was renowned and successful. With 
his passing, Africa has lost one of its most illustrious 
sons and the world has lost one of the most outstanding 
diplomats of our time. May his soul rest in perfect peace.
Late last year, Liberians participated in presidential 
and legislative elections, the results of which represented 
a  major  shift  in  the  underlying  fundamentals  of 
Liberian political dynamics. In an orderly, lawful and 
peaceful  manner,  Liberians  voted  in  overwhelming 
numbers for change and hope. This was the first time 
in 73 years that Liberians enjoyed a peaceful transfer 
of power from one democratically elected Government 
to another. At the end of the long campaign, when the 
results  were  announced  after  the  run-off,  it  became 
clear that the pendulum had swung in the direction of 
youthful  leadership  and  the  paradigm  had  shifted  in 
favour of change and transformation.
The United Nations and its various bodies, as well 
as  regional  organizations  and  many  of  our  bilateral 
partners and friends, directly witnessed the maturity of 
the Liberian electorate, our respect for law and order, 
and  our  successful  democratic  processes.  The  mantle 
and responsibility for leading that transformation was 
thereby placed on my shoulders, as the standard-bearer 
of the winning Coalition for Democratic Change, with 
my  inauguration,  on  22  January,  as  the  twenty-fourth 
President  of  Liberia.  The  challenges  of  leadership 
are  enormous,  but,  in  each  and  every  one  of  those 
challenges,  I  see  opportunities  to  make  things  better 
and to bring permanent improvements to the lives of all 
Liberians, as we devise policies and programmes that 
will have a lasting and positive impact on the lives of 
our citizens.
The  umbrella  programme  under  which  we  intend 
to  pursue  prosperity  is  the  Pro-Poor  Agenda  for 
Development and Prosperity, our national development 
plan for the next five years. The Agenda is not only for 
the poor, it is for the benefit of all Liberians. But it is 
policy framework that gives priority to the alleviation 
of poverty, and its core objective and focus are to reduce 
the marginalization of the most vulnerable, while also 
creating a conducive atmosphere for middle- and upper-
income Liberians to grow and prosper. We want to build 
a  harmonious  society  based  on  the  goal  of  economic 
empowerment, especially for the underprivileged. Our 
Pro-Poor Agenda is therefore designed to give power to 
the  people,  promote  economic  diversification,  protect 
sustainable peace and encourage good governance. We 
appeal  to  our  friends,  bilateral  partners  and  private 
investors to support the Agenda.
As  we  focus  on  action  plans  to  implement  our 
development  Agenda,  we  are  acutely  aware  of  the 
vulnerability of our youthful population, who are clearly 
disadvantaged as a result of high unemployment and a 
lack of access to quality educational opportunities. Our 
plan is to reverse their unfortunate situation and help 
them become productive citizens through the provision 
of  adequate  educational  facilities  at  the  high-school 
and  college  levels  for  those  who  remain  interested  in 
pursuing  academic  programmes.  For  those  youths 
left  behind  due  to  the  disastrous  civil  crisis  and  who 
have  outgrown  their  school  years,  my  Government 
is  investing  in  technical  vocational  education  and 
training programmes to build their entrepreneurial and 
marketable skillsets.
Conscious  of 
impact  of 
infrastructure on social and economic development, my 
Government has identified investment in roads, energy 
and ports as our key priority, and is therefore soliciting 
funding  and  other  technical  expertise  to  undertake 
the 
importance  and 
36/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
those  projects  in  pursuit  of  our  goal  to  connect  our 
cities and towns and power our economy.
Agriculture,  Liberia’s  comparative  advantage, 
has  also  been  identified  as  one  of  our  major  poverty-
alleviation  instruments,  since  it  can  lead  us  to  self-
sufficiency  in  food  production  and  self-employment, 
as  well  as  open  doors  to  industrialization.  With  the 
implementation  of  a  new  special  economic  zone,  we 
intend to attract labour-intensive light manufacturing.
Drawing  on  the  experience  of  the  2014  Ebola 
epidemic,  which  took  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
Liberians and health workers, we intend to efficiently 
and properly organize our health-care delivery system, 
to ensure that the health and well-being of our people 
is improved.
Finally,  we  are  placing  emphasis  on  national 
security  in  order  to  enable  our  people  to  move  and 
live freely without fear. With the recent withdrawal of 
the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia  (UNMIL),  we 
are  now  in  charge  of  our  own  security.  We  thank  the 
international  community  for  the  sacrifices  made  in 
securing and maintaining the peace in Liberia after our 
protracted  civil  conflict.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like 
to express my personal appreciation to Mr. Farid Zarif 
of Afghanistan, who, as the Special Representative of 
the Secretary-General for Liberia and the last Head of 
UNMIL,  from  2015  to  2018,  supervised  the  orderly 
withdrawal  of  troops,  while  simultaneously  securing 
the  peaceful  environment  that  allowed  a  very  robust 
political campaign to take place without incident.
My  country  has  finally  turned  the  corner,  having 
now experienced more years of peace than the preceding 
years of war, guided by our Peace Agreement, signed 
in Accra 15 years ago. We thank the members and the 
Security Council for the UNMIL peacekeeping mission, 
which  brought  stability  and  helped  us  rebuild  our 
institutions  and  communities.  We  are  a  peacekeeping 
success  story,  and  we  are  grateful  for  the  support  we 
were given.
But  a  nation  that  has  experienced  civil  war  must 
never take peace for granted or forget the long shadow 
that  years  of  conflict  still  cast  over  people’s  lives. 
We  must  realize  and  appreciate  that  ours  is  still  a 
fragile peace.
Our people across the country still bear the scars 
of  conflict.  We  therefore  intend  to  initiate  a  series  of 
national peace dialogues throughout Liberia. We must 
relaunch  those  difficult  conversations  at  the  local 
level  and  include  our  youth,  so  that  they,  and  we,  do 
not repeat the costly mistakes of the past. It is clear to 
me that such frank exchanges are an essential step in 
bringing lasting healing, reconciliation and unity to our 
people. Our agenda is not one of division, but rather one 
that intends to provide an enabling environment for a 
united and reconciled people to be able to benefit and 
prosper from the economic dividends of peace.
I  recall  with  humility  that  I  was  once  selected  to 
serve as UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, a mission that 
I undertook with passion, conviction and commitment 
to  support  and  inform  the  world  about  principles  for 
which  this  Organization  stands.  I  was  also  privileged 
to  be  appointed  as  Messenger  of  Peace  for  Liberia,  a 
mandate  to  apply  these  principles:  preserving  and 
maintaining  peace,  which  the  peacekeeping  mission 
had  so  successful  restored.  I  deeply  and  personally 
cherish those principles.
Therefore, today, in concluding, I wish to reaffirm 
the  support  of  my  Government  for  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  in  striving  to  achieve  global  peace, 
counter  terrorism  and  reform  the  United  Nations,  as 
well  as  to  achieve  reform,  security,  good  governance 
and  the  advancement  of  the  principle  of  universal 
human  rights.  We  further  reiterate  our  commitment 
to  the  rule  of  law,  the  alleviation  of  poverty,  gender 
equality, the elimination of gender-based violence and 
the empowerment of women, girls and young people. I 
also believe that the overwhelming mandate I received 
from  the  Liberian  people  is  one  to  end  corruption  in 
the  public  service,  and  I  remain  fully  committed  to 
that task.
With the generous assistance and strong support of 
the United Nations, as well as that of other international 
institutions  and  Member  States,  and  with  God’s 
blessing, we will fulfil our agenda to lift our people out 
of poverty to prosperity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Liberia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  George  Manneh  Weah,  President  of  the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
18-29871
37/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
Address by Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the 
Slovak Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Slovak Republic.
Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak Republic, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andrej  Kiska,  President 
of  the  Slovak  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President  Kiska:  It  takes  decades  to  build  peace 
and  trust,  but  it  only  takes  seconds,  one  selfish  or 
narrow-minded decision, to break them. We gather here 
every year to enhance what we have been building for 
over  70  years:  an  idea  of  a  world  based  on  rules  and 
the principles of humanity, responsibility, tolerance and 
peaceful coexistence, where wars and armed conflicts 
have no place, where disputes are solved in dialogue and 
where challenges are addressed through cooperation.
introduce  restrictions  and 
We are continuously becoming wealthier and more 
advanced.  With  all  the  resources  we  can  generate 
together,  we  might  have  the  means  necessary  to 
reach  even  the  poorest  of  the  poor.  Yet  we  are  more 
often  driven  by  selfishness  and  short-term  interests. 
Instead of enlarging freedom, cooperation and healthy 
competition,  we 
trade 
wars.  While  globalization  has  created  unprecedented 
wealth,  inequalities  still  divide  our  planet.  Economic 
figures  are  positive  but,  in  many  parts  of  our  world, 
have  hardly  translated  into  improved  well-being  and 
dignity  for  every  human  being.  At  an  amazing  pace, 
we  continue  to  develop  technologies  allowing  us  to 
connect, communicate and be closer globally. But the 
distance between people and the gap in understanding 
and empathy towards other cultures remains huge. Yet, 
thanks to innovation, the world has never been smaller. 
What happens thousands of kilometres away can turn 
into a global problem in a matter of minutes, and global 
problems have a direct impacts on our citizens. Against 
that backdrop, the United Nations plays an irreplaceable 
role.  It  has  enormous  potential  to  overcome  those 
paradoxes. Its strong principles, responsible action and 
ability to drive cooperation are what make it so unique. 
Let me touch upon those aspects in more detail.
Rules  and  principles  and  their  enforcement  must 
remain the backbone of the Organization because today 
it  seems  that  playing  by  the  rules  has  become  old-
fashioned, as if ignoring them were a sign of strength 
and respect a sign of weakness.
The  number  of  armed  conflicts  has  increased  in 
recent  years.  In  only  2016  and  2017,  the  number  of 
conflicts  equalled  the  peak  of  the  Cold  War  era.  The 
number of civilian casualties rise. We are talking about 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  innocent  people  directly 
affected by conflicts and war.
Sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  are  the  DNA 
of  global  and  regional  stability  and  security.  But  the 
occupation of Georgia and Ukraine and destabilization 
in the region are just one of many examples of respect 
for rules being replaced by ruthless power politics.
The threat of nuclear weapons resonates much more 
often than we could have imagined in the recent years. 
We  hope  that  the  developments  under  way  in  North 
Korea will bring about tangible results. We must make 
sure that agreements will be kept. And if not, we need 
to act with resolve.
Too often we see thousands of civilians massacred 
by their very regimes, or in endless conflicts, as if we 
had  become  unmoved  by  the  breaching  of  the  very 
norms of humanity and stopped counting the innocent 
lives lost in Syria, Yemen, Palestine, Myanmar, South 
Sudan and elsewhere.
Together  we  have  agreed  that  the  use  of  weapons 
of mass destruction is unacceptable, without exception. 
Any use of chemical weapons must be a red line and not 
tolerated — an automatic trigger for resolute action. It 
is  therefore  shameful  to  see  the  tyrannical  regime  in 
Syria repeatedly use chemical weapons against its own 
citizens for the sake of survival. As for us, Europeans, 
it is shocking to witness the attacks in Salisbury, Great 
Britain,  with  the  perpetrators  avoiding  responsibility 
and shamelessly denying the facts.
It  is  our  responsibility  to  make  sure  that  no 
perpetrator  escapes  unpunished.  We  must  firmly 
show  that  we  will  not  allow  our  principles  to  be  bent 
to aggressive politics, that we will not undermine the 
authority of this Organization by inaction.
We  all  have  a  great  responsibility  towards  our 
citizens, the international community and the planet to 
lead, to stand firmly behind our values and to defend 
them. We must listen to our people not only to address 
their  problems,  but  also  to  see  far  enough  to  inspire 
them,  in  particular  vis-à-vis  extremism,  populism, 
38/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
radicalism,  xenophobia,  racism,  propaganda,  lies,  the 
twisting  of  the  truth,  and  terrorism.  Their  goals  are 
simple and yet effective: to spread fear, hatred and doubt, 
erode our beliefs and values and undermine our unity. 
They  provide  seemingly  quick  and  simple  solutions, 
provoking  confrontation  and  drawing  dividing  lines. 
It  is  no  surprise  they  find  fertile  soil  everywhere  we 
fail  to  deliver.  People  living  in  poverty,  afflicted  by 
hunger or disease, with no access to education or health 
care are among their natural targets. And we will not 
win this fight if we do not offer those people and their 
children hope for a better life of dignity, free of fear of 
hunger or death. That is why our unity in implementing 
the development goals, in fighting climate change and 
addressing migration is so important. We need to turn 
our plans and our promises into a global reality. Failing 
to do so only sends a signal of our weakness, leaving 
those people and this planet as easy prey.
through  social  media 
The unprecedented progress and innovation of new 
technology  brings  with  it  new  challenges.  I  am  very 
concerned  about  malicious  activities  in  cyberspace. 
Growing  manipulation 
is 
undermining democracy worldwide and indoctrinating 
our  populations.  Cyberspace  knows  no  borders.  It  is 
anonymous  and  provides  unlimited  room  to  strike 
at  us.  The  choice  of  means  is  endless:  to  manipulate 
elections, to influence decisions, to spy on us or sneak 
into  our  computers,  networks  and  everyday  lives.  It 
is  as  dangerous  as  any  conventional  threat.  As  such 
it requires our utmost attention. But, to date, we have 
done nothing or little about it. Global companies prefer 
their profits over their responsibilities. It is therefore up 
to us, States, to set new standards and, where needed, 
regulations — because today we do not lead, we only 
follow. And the price of inaction may soon be very high.
took 
Mr.  Messahel 
the Chair.
Too  often,  we  hear  political  leaders  issue  calls  to 
fight  extremism  and  propaganda  with  the  same  tools 
and rhetoric. They could not be more wrong. The only 
honest  answer  is  to  support  tolerance,  freedom  of 
speech and critical thinking in our societies. The only 
potent defence is to strengthen our values and to bring 
candid  solutions  to  people’s  problems.  Only  when  we 
deliver may our democratic ideology become immune 
to  extremist  ideas  and  propaganda.  In  that  effort,  we 
need  to  remember  that  free  media  are  our  allies,  not 
our  enemies.  They  are  guardians  of  our  principles. 
They  are  often  the  first  to  spot  when  things  go  in 
(Algeria),  Vice-President, 
the  wrong  direction.  They  hold  those  who  break  the 
rules accountable.
We  should  therefore  be  worried  indeed  about 
increased attacks on journalists, attempts to eliminate 
the freedom of the press, and growing restrictions on 
civil  societies.  Sadly,  last  year  dozens  of  journalists 
were  killed,  hundreds 
thousands 
oppressed.  The  climate  of  hate  continues  to  spread, 
portraying  them  as  enemies  of  the  State,  enemies  of 
nations  or  even  of  faiths.  But  they  play  a  key  role  in 
our mission for a better world, and as such they must 
be protected.
imprisoned  and 
None of our countries, even the most powerful, is 
big  enough  to  face  present  challenges  on  its  own,  be 
they migration, terrorism, climate change or sustaining 
solid economic growth. While our most important duty 
as politicians is to serve our people, that will be possible 
only  if  we  truly  understand  the  value  of  cooperation 
and that, if we truly want to change the world for the 
better, we need to think of others — individuals, nations 
and countries — and patiently explain this principle to 
our people.
As Kofi Annan said,
“More than ever before in human history, we share 
a common destiny. We can master it only if we face 
it together. And that, my friends, is why we have 
the United Nations”.
I  admit  that  multilateralism  is  not  always  easy,  but  it 
is  the  only  sustainable  way.  The  United  Nations  will 
serve  its  purpose  as  long  as  we,  the  Member  States, 
hold  true  to  our  commitments  and  stand  ready  to 
defend rules and principles. The noble ideals and strong 
principles of this Organization — the steadfast values 
of tolerance, empathy, compassion and solidarity — are 
our  best  tools  for  facing  any  challenge.  If  we  protect 
those  values,  the  moral  compass  of  humankind, 
then  the  evil  of  aggressive  power  politics,  selfish 
nationalism, extremism and racism will not prevail. We 
may not know what comes tomorrow, but we know how 
to respond if we let the moral compass guide us. The 
best assurance we can have in times of uncertainty is to 
protect our values.
I wish to conclude by congratulating the President 
of the General Assembly on assuming her duties. The 
challenges  I  spoke  about  are  not  easy  to  tackle,  but  I 
have  full  confidence  that  the  United  Nations  and  her 
Office  will  guide  the  Assembly  through  these  times 
18-29871
39/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
with  the  utmost  dedication  to  fulfilling  our  common 
goals.  I  therefore  also  wish  proudly  to  thank  and 
congratulate her predecessor, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, for 
the  professionalism  with  which  he  served  the  United 
Nations and its peoples.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Slovak Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak Republic, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the 
Republic of Korea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Korea.
Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the Republic of Korea, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Moon Jae-in, 
President of the Republic of Korea, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Moon Jae-in (spoke in Korean; English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I would like 
to express my deepest condolences on the passing away 
of  Kofi  Annan,  the  seventh  Secretary-General  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  world  will  forever  remember  his 
name, which has been etched in the road to peace.
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  assuming  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  hope 
the  United  Nations  will  be  able  to  reach  out  to  every 
corner  of  the  globe  through  this  session.  I  also  hope 
that  the  United  Nations  will  make  further  progress 
in  contributing 
international  community 
under  the  excellent  leadership  of  Secretary-General 
António Guterres.
the 
to 
As I did last year (see A/72/PV.11), I stand here once 
again with a sense of urgency and excitement. Something 
miraculous  has  taken  place  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
over the past year. For the first time in history, the leader 
of North Korea crossed the Military Demarcation Line 
to  visit  Panmunjeom.  A  historic  summit  between  the 
United States and North Korea was held on the island 
of Sentosa in Singapore. Chairman Kim Jong Un and 
I removed the shadow of war and resolved to usher in 
an  era  of  peace  and  prosperity.  At  the  United  States-
North  Korea  summit,  the  two  sides  agreed  to  work 
towards  achieving  the  complete  denuclearization  on 
the Korean peninsula, thereby ending hostile relations 
and establishing a permanent peace regime. President 
Trump and Chairman Kim took action and gave hope 
to those who desire peace an around the world. North 
Korea  dismantled  its  nuclear  test  site  in  Punggye-ri, 
under the observation of the international community. 
The United States and the Republic of Korea suspended 
large-scale  joint  military  exercises  and  built  trust.  I 
would  like  to  thank  and  salute  President  Trump  and 
Chairman Kim’s courage and resolve as they usher in a 
new era on the Korean peninsula, as well as in United 
States-North Korea relations.
Last week in Pyongyang, I met Chairman Kim for 
the third time and reached an agreement once again to 
turn  the  Korean  peninsula  into  a  land  of  peace,  free 
from  nuclear  weapons  and  threats.  Chairman  Kim 
expressed  his  hope  of  completing  denuclearization  as 
soon  as  possible  to  focus  on  economic  development. 
Moreover, Chairman Kim expressed his commitment to 
permanently dismantling the missile-engine test site and 
launch platform in Dongchang-ri, under the observation 
of the international community as a first step in order 
to expedite progress in denuclearization. Furthermore, 
he  expressed  his  firm  willingness  to  continue  to  take 
additional  denuclearization  measures,  including  the 
permanent  dismantlement  of  nuclear  facilities 
in 
Yongbyon,  as  the  United  States  takes  corresponding 
measures in the spirit of the Sentosa agreement.
The  Korean  peninsula  has  remained  under  the 
Armistice for the past 65 years. Ending the Korean War 
is an urgent task. It is a process we must go through in 
order to move towards a peace regime. I look forward to 
seeing bold measures for denuclearization implemented 
among  the  countries  concerned,  thereby  leading  to  a 
declaration to end the war. Regardless of the challenges 
that lie ahead, the leaders of the south, the north and 
the United States will move step by step towards peace 
based on mutual trust. Such a dramatic change has been 
possible  thanks  to  the  support  and  encouragement  of 
people around the world who desire peace. The United 
Nations in particular gave North Korea the courage to 
embark upon the road to peace. I would like to express 
my gratitude to the United Nations for its role. However, 
that  is  just  the  beginning.  I  would  like  to  ask  for 
continued  support  and  cooperation  from  the  Member 
40/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
States on our journey towards complete denuclearization 
and permanent peace. The Republic of Korea will spare 
no  effort  to  encourage  North  Korea’s  participation  in 
the  international  community,  while  adhering  to  the 
resolutions adopted by the United Nations.
A prelude to peace on the Korean peninsula unfolded 
in  Pyeongcheng,  Gangwon  province  last  winter.  It 
was  the  moment  when  the  Olympic  Truce  resolution 
adopted  at  the  General  Assembly  in  November  2017 
came to precious fruition. Secretary-General Guterres 
and many Heads of State extended their congratulations 
on  the  participation  of  North  Korean  athletes  and 
officials  in  the  Pyeongcheng  Olympic  Winter  Games. 
They expressed their wishes for unity and peace on the 
Korean peninsula. The world was awakened to the sense 
of a new history of peace being written. I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee,  Thomas  Bach,  for 
his leadership and contribution in opening the way for 
North Korea to participate in the Pyeongcheng Olympic 
Winter Games. Just over a month after the close of the 
Pyeongcheng  Paralympic  Winter  Games,  Chairman 
Kim and I met for the first time in Panmunjeom. The 
United  Nations  welcomed  and  actively  supported  the 
adoption  of  the  Panmunjeom  Declaration.  By  doing 
so,  it  provided  tremendous  strength  to  the  meetings 
that have followed, including the second inter-Korean 
summit, the United States-North Korea summit and the 
recent inter-Korean summit in Pyongyang.
At  the  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, I expressed the hope that North Korea would 
choose  peace  of  its  own  accord  in  order  to  establish 
sound  and  sustainable  peace.  That  hope  was  shared 
by  the  United  Nations  and  the  entire  international 
community.  North  Korea  responded  positively  to  our 
hopes and calls. Chairman Kim changed the direction of 
the political situation on the Korean peninsula through 
his New Year’s address on the first day of this year. The 
participation of North Korea’s athletes and delegation 
in  the  Pyeongcheng  Winter  Olympics  provided  the 
decisive  momentum  to  break  the  impasse  in  building 
peace.  On  20  April,  North  Korea  officially  ended  its 
policy of nuclear development and has since devoted all 
of its efforts to economic development. On 9 September, 
during the ceremony marking the seventieth anniversary 
of its founding, North Korea expressed its commitment 
to  peace  and  prosperity  instead  of  boasting  about  its 
nuclear  capabilities.  North  Korea  moved  out  of  long-
standing isolation on its own initiative and stands before 
the international community once again. Now it is the 
international community’s turn to respond positively to 
North Korea’s new choices and efforts. We must assure 
Chairman Kim that he has made the right decision in 
committing  to  denuclearization.  We  must  encourage 
North Korea to stay on the path that leads to permanent 
and solid peace.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  is  crucial.  The 
Secretariat  has  continued  its  efforts  for  dialogue  and 
engagement, including the invitation of North Korean 
officials  to  international  conferences.  The  United 
Nations has announced its commitment to leave no one 
behind. My sincere hope is that the vision of the United 
Nations  of  sustainable  development  will  be  realized 
on  the  Korean  peninsula.  I  have  no  doubt  that,  if  the 
international  community  paves  the  way,  North  Korea 
will  not  stall  in  making  strides  towards  peace  and 
prosperity. The Republic of Korea will spare no effort 
in guiding North Korea towards that path. I would like 
to  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  share  its  experience 
and wisdom.
The  process  of  working  towards  denuclearization 
and  establishing  peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is 
one that also leads to building peace and cooperation 
in North-East Asia, which is home to one fifth of the 
world’s  population  and  accounts  for  a  quarter  of  the 
global  economy.  However,  regional  conflicts  stand  in 
the way of pursuing broader cooperation. We will begin 
the  work  of  resolving  conflicts  in  North-East  Asia 
starting with the Korean peninsula.
On 15 August, I proposed the creation of an East 
Asian  railroad  community,  which  would  involve  six 
North-East  Asian  countries  and  the  United  States. 
The European Coal and Steel Community, which gave 
birth to the creation of the European Union, is a living 
example of what that kind of initiative could achieve. 
I believe that the East Asian railroad community will 
be  able  to  serve  as  a  starting  point  for  the  creation 
of  an  energy  and  economic  community  in  East  Asia, 
and, going a step further, lead to a multilateral peace 
and security architecture in North-East Asia. The two 
Koreas are working to reconnect disconnected railroads 
and roads. Going forward, the Republic of Korea will 
engage  in  close  consultations  with  countries  in  the 
region on concrete steps towards the East Asian railroad 
community. As we work to realize the United Nations 
spirit of multilateralism and pave the way for a future 
of shared prosperity, I would like to ask for the support 
and cooperation of the international community.
18-29871
41/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
The  Republic  of  Korea,  together  with  the  United 
Nations, has weathered the storms of modern history. 
The  United  Nations  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  share 
common  values  and  philosophies.  This  month,  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  announced  its 
vision of an inclusive nation based on a people-centred 
governing  philosophy.  We  are  moving  towards  a 
fair  and  just  nation,  as  well  as  a  society  in  which  no 
one  is  discriminated  against  and  everyone  lives  in 
harmony. Inclusiveness is also a philosophy embedded 
in 
cooperation.  The 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  will  steadily 
expand its contribution to development cooperation to 
create a global community that leaves no one behind.
international  development 
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  also  increasing  its 
assistance  to  people  who  are  suffering  from  human 
rights  violations  and  discrimination,  in  particular  the 
most  vulnerable  groups,  including  children,  youth, 
women and those with disabilities. We have increased 
our financial aid for refugees five times in the past five 
years. Starting from this year, Korea is providing 50,000 
tons of rice every year to developing countries that are 
suffering from severe food crises. I believe that there 
needs to be a holistic approach that encompasses peace, 
development and human rights so as to fundamentally 
resolve  humanitarian  crises.  The  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  Korea  will  engage  in  discussions  and 
provide support to make the United Nations relevant to 
all people.
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. Anyone who has confronted the abuse of power 
to advance human rights carries in his or her heart the 
first  clause  of  the  Declaration  —  “All  human  beings 
are  born  free  and  equal”.  In  particular,  I  am  working 
to  realize  gender  equality  in  tangible  ways,  as  an 
important part of our administrative agenda. All forms 
of discrimination and violence against women are being 
dealt with even more sternly. Korea has suffered directly 
from  the  Japanese  military’s  mobilization  of  comfort 
women.  We  will  actively  participate  in  discussions 
within the international community with regard to the 
issue  of  women  and  peace  and  security.  We  will  also 
work  together  with  the  international  community  in 
efforts to eradicate sexual violence in conflict.
Responding to climate change and transitioning to 
a low-carbon economy are challenges and tasks facing 
our  generation.  The  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea  will  raise  its  share  of  renewable  energy  in  the 
nation’s total power generation to 20 per cent by 2030. 
We  will  faithfully  implement  the  goal  of  reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, in compliance with 
the Paris Agreement, and assist developing countries in 
their pursuit of sustainable development by supporting 
them with climate-change responses.
For the two Koreas, the significance of the United 
Nations  goes  beyond  any  international  organization. 
On  17  September  1991,  at  the  forty-sixth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  then  159  States  Members 
of the United Nations unanimously adopted resolution 
46/1 for the joint accession by South Korea and North 
Korea  to  the  United  Nations.  Coincidentally,  that  day 
was the International Day of Peace. In their respective 
speeches, the representatives of South Korea and North 
Korea  pledged  that,  although  South  Korea  and  North 
Korea  had  started  as  separate  members,  they  would 
eventually become one some day through reconciliation, 
cooperation and peace (see A/46/PV.1). Now, 27 years 
later,  South  Korea  and  North  Korea  are  realizing  the 
pledge made on that day. We have crossed the barriers 
of division and are tearing down the walls in our hearts. 
We  are  proving  to  the  international  community  that, 
when  we  come  together,  we  have  sufficient  means  to 
establish peace.
We all desire peace. Peace represents the relatives 
and  neighbours  we  love  and  the  home  towns  we  long 
for.  Peace  means  sharing  what  we  have  together.  A 
peace we have all achieved together is a peace for all. 
I am confident that all members will be with us always 
on  the  path  to  permanent  peace  and  denuclearization 
on the Korean peninsula, as well as on the journey to a 
peaceful world.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Korea  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the Republic of Korea, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President 
of Romania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of Romania.
 Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
42/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Klaus Werner 
Iohannis,  President  of  Romania,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Iohannis:  I  am  particularly  honoured 
to  address  this  year’s  session,  as  2018  is  a  symbolic 
year for Romania. One hundred years ago, Romanians 
accomplished their great dream, that of living together 
in  one  united  country.  The  centenary  of  a  united  and 
modern  Romania  is  not  only  about  my  country’s  past 
but, even more, about the future. My strong conviction 
is that a safer and prosperous future for the Romanian 
people  can  be  accomplished  only  alongside  peaceful 
and sustainable societies all over the world.
The  United  Nations,  too,  has  reasons  to  celebrate 
this year. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
is  turning  70  years  old,  and  so  is  the  International 
Law  Commission,  the  main  United  Nations  body 
responsible  for  shaping  international  law  in  order  for 
the international community to become a better place 
where international rule of law governs us all.
Such anniversaries are a reminder of our political 
determination  to  stand  up  for  our  fundamental  rights 
and  the  law,  although  the  road  has  neither  been  short 
nor easy. Our action as political leaders is driven by a 
responsibility towards our people. We serve our people 
when working with the United Nations, and each and 
every citizen needs to see a concrete impact on his or 
her daily life and a positive change. I therefore welcome 
the invitation of the President of the General Assembly 
to comment on the continuing relevance of the United 
Nations for the lives and well-being of all peoples. We 
have to explain the current challenges to peace, equity 
and sustainability of our societies and speak more about 
the role of the United Nations in addressing them. We 
must explain that we face serious threats to security, that 
terrorism  needs  a  globally  coordinated  response  and 
that  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
and their means of delivery remain existential threats to 
global security. Pointing them out is necessary, but not 
enough. We need to address them by coming up with 
clear solutions. Romania is working in that respect in 
its region. Unfortunately, there are unresolved conflicts 
in the wider Black Sea area that pose serious threats to 
the region itself and to international security.
Three years ago, we adopted the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development — a unique universal agenda 
for progress — and set 17 ambitious goals that have a 
significant  impact  on  the  most  pressing  challenges  in 
the everyday lives of our people. Romania, like many 
other countries, is in a learning process. One very useful 
exercise was the presentation of our national voluntary 
review  at  the  High-level  Political  Forum  in  July.  At 
the  same  time,  we  have  a  lot  to  share  from  our  own 
experience.  Therefore,  in  April  2019,  in  partnership 
with  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for 
Europe, Romania will host a regional conference on the 
theme “The 2030 Agenda: Partnerships for Sustainable 
Development”. The countries of our region will have a 
chance to share good practices and lessons learned in 
the  process  of  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  and  in 
identifying  strategic  opportunities  for  addressing  key 
social drivers in our region, as well as looking at areas 
of sustainability and common interest.
From another perspective, we are satisfied with our 
joint  efforts  to  prepare  for  the  adoption  of  some  very 
important  international  cooperative  frameworks  by 
the end of 2018. The global compacts on refugees and 
regular  migration  will  generate  a  common  approach 
on  migration  and  displaced  persons  at  the  global 
level. In addition, negotiations on a global pact for the 
environment are about to start. The development of the 
convention on the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction is in progress. Another Ocean Conference 
will  take  place  soon.  It  will  be  aimed  at  continuing 
engagement  for  safe,  secure,  clean  and  sustainably 
managed  oceans  at  the  global  level.  In  addition,  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
and  the  Plan  of  Action  to  Prevent  Violent  Extremism 
remain paramount.
The  list  of  achievements  with  a  direct  impact  on 
our lives does not stop there, as we do not stop making 
progress  in  our  work  together  at  the  United  Nations. 
And I believe that we can do more. We still have to work 
on making the whole United Nations system, including 
the  Security  Council,  truly  coordinated,  efficient, 
effective,  transparent,  accountable  and  fit  for  the 
realities of the international community of the twenty-
first  century.  The  next  few  months  will  be  decisive 
for United Nations reform. The implementation of the 
framework put in place as a result of the tireless work of 
the Secretary-General, with the support of the Member 
States, will reflect the level of political determination 
of  each  country.  Romania  will  continue  to  support 
that effort.
18-29871
43/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
As the next President of the Council of the European 
Union, in the first half of 2019, Romania is determined 
to  strengthen  the  European  Union-United  Nations 
partnership. And when I speak about engagement I do 
not just mean politicians and diplomats. We must reach 
out to our young people, representatives of civil society, 
journalists and business people. We need them all for 
the cause of multilateralism and global leadership.
As  the  Assembly  knows,  Romania  is  running  for 
a  non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for  the 
term  2020-2021.  Through  that  candidature,  we  take 
our  share  of  responsibility  in  the  attempt  to  increase 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Council.  We  hope  that  our 
track  record  within  the  United  Nations  will  convince 
the  Assembly  once  again  that  Romania  is  committed 
to  supporting  the  United  Nations  work  for  peace  and 
development  for  all  its  Members.  Peace,  development 
and justice are foundational pillars in our multilateral 
strategy. We respect our partners and rely on dialogue. 
We count on members’ most valuable support for our 
candidature. Romania will be a responsible partner in 
promoting a common United Nations agenda.
We  have  recognized  the  primary  responsibility 
of  the  Security  Council  for  international  peace  and 
security, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations.  As  many  crises  today  are  multidimensional 
in  nature,  the  Security  Council  could  play  a  more 
prominent role in addressing more aspects that impact 
peace  and  security.  For  example,  climate  change 
has  become  one  of  the  toughest  global  challenges. 
Its  consequences  —  be  they  water  shortages,  food 
insecurity,  the  displacement  of  people  or  rising  sea 
levels — threaten lives all around the world. In addition 
to the efforts of other United Nations platforms to tackle 
climate-related risks, the Security Council could create 
a framework to address them in an integrated manner.
We  welcomed  the  organization  of  a  debate  in 
the  Security  Council  in  July  on  aspects  of  peace  and 
security  related  to  climate  change  (see  S/PV.8307), 
and  we  are  ready  to  follow  up  on  the  topic  if  elected 
as a non-permanent member. Ahead of the preparation 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  climate  summit  next  year, 
during  its  presidency  of  the  Council  of  the  European 
Union  Romania  will  host  an  international  conference 
on the theme “Building resilience to natural disasters”, 
as a platform to exchange views on how to assess and 
more effectively address climate-related security risks 
and enhance the basis for a resilient future.
I  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  the  theme  she  chose  for  this  year’s  debate  and 
congratulate  her  on  the  important  responsibilities  she 
has assumed. Let me extend our best wishes of success 
and assure her of the full cooperation of Romania.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Romania  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mrs. Theresa May, Prime Minister 
of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland.
Mrs.  Theresa  May,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I have great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Theresa 
May, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  and  inviting  her  to 
address the Assembly.
Mrs.  May  (United  Kingdom):  On  behalf  of  the 
United Kingdom, let me begin by paying tribute to an 
outstanding  leader  of  the  United  Nations,  who,  sadly, 
passed away this summer. Kofi Annan was one of the 
great  Secretaries-General,  a  tireless  campaigner  for 
peace  and  progress  and  a  champion  of  human  rights 
and  human  dignity,  whose  influence  will  continue  to 
be  felt  around  the  world  for  years  to  come.  Over  the 
course  of  his  lifetime  he  witnessed  the  extraordinary 
progress that we as a community of nations have made 
since the Organization was founded: progress in which 
we have more than halved the number of people living 
in  extreme  poverty  in  this  century  alone;  progress  in 
which  the  number  of  people  killed  in  conflicts  has 
fallen by three quarters in just over three decades; and 
progress in which millions of our citizens lead healthier 
and  longer  lives  and  where,  thanks  to  advances  in 
44/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
human  knowledge,  medicine,  science  and  technology, 
we are presented with huge opportunities in the years 
ahead. Yet today many are concerned about whether or 
not that progress will continue and fearful about what 
the future holds.
For the end of the Cold War did not, as many once 
believed,  lead  to  the  inevitable  supremacy  of  open 
economies and liberal democracies cooperating on the 
global stage for the common good. Today, instead, we 
face  a  loss  of  confidence  in  those  very  systems  that 
have delivered so much. The belief in free markets has 
been  challenged  by  the  financial  crisis  of  2008,  the 
concerns of those feeling left behind by globalization, 
the anxieties about the pace and scale of technological 
change  and  what  that  will  mean  for  jobs  and  the 
unprecedented  mass  movements  of  people  across 
borders,  with  all  the  pressures  that  can  bring.  And 
after  the  military  interventionism  at  the  beginning  of 
the century, people question the rationale, and indeed 
legitimacy, of the use of force and involving ourselves 
in  crises  and  conflicts  that  are  not  ours,  while  at  the 
same time being repelled by the slaughter in Syria and 
our failure to end it.
Such doubts are entirely understandable; so too is 
the demand for leadership. Those of us who believe in 
inclusive societies and open economies have a duty to 
respond,  learn  the  lessons  of  the  past,  meet  people’s 
concerns with practical actions, not beguiling illusions, 
and renew our confidence in the ideas and values that 
have done so much to benefit so many for so long. For 
be  in  no  doubt,  if  we  lack  the  confidence  to  step  up, 
others will.
In the last century, whether in the rise of fascism 
or the spread of communism, we have seen those on the 
extreme  right  and  extreme  left  exploit  people’s  fears, 
stoke intolerance and racism, close down economies and 
societies and destroy the peace of nations. And today, 
once more, we see worrying trends in the rise of such 
movements in Europe and beyond. We have seen what 
happens  when  countries  slide  into  authoritarianism, 
slowly crushing the basic freedoms and rights of their 
citizens.  We  have  seen  what  happens  when  corrupt 
oligarchies  rob  their  nations  of  the  wealth,  resources 
and  human  capital  that  are  so  vital  to  unlocking  a 
brighter future for their citizens.
We  have  seen  what  happens  when  the  natural 
patriotism that is a cornerstone of a healthy society is 
warped into aggressive nationalism, exploiting fear and 
uncertainty  to  promote  identity  politics  at  home  and 
belligerent confrontation abroad, while breaking rules 
and  undermining  institutions.  We  see  what  happens 
when States like Russia flagrantly breach international 
norms  —  from  the  seizing  of  sovereign  territory  to 
the reckless use of chemical weapons on the streets of 
Britain by agents of the Russian GRU. We have to show 
there is a better way to meet the concerns of our people. 
That  way  lies  in  global  cooperation  between  strong 
and  accountable  States  based  on  open  economies  and 
inclusive societies. It is a way that ensures that strong 
nation  States  provide  the  bonds  that  bring  citizens 
together  and  that  power  remains  accountable  to  those 
it is there to serve; that celebrates free markets and has 
the confidence to reform them when they need to work 
better; and that demonstrates that delivering for one’s 
citizens at home does not have to be at the expense of 
global cooperation and the values, rules and ideals that 
underpin that.
increasing 
Indeed,  cooperation  and  competition  are  not 
mutually exclusive. Only global cooperation based on 
a set of agreed rules can ensure competition is fair and 
does not succumb to protectionism, with its certain path 
to  lost  jobs  and  international  confrontation.  It  is  only 
global  cooperation  that  can  harness  legitimate  self-
interest towards common goals, producing agreements 
on  global  challenges,  such  as  climate  change  and 
proliferation,  and 
inclusive  economic 
growth.  We  see  that  cooperation  here  today  at  the 
United Nations, as we also saw it at the Commonwealth 
Heads  of  Government  meeting  earlier  this  year.  And 
here  today,  as  Chair-in-Office  of  the  Commonwealth, 
I  deliver  a  clear  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Heads  of 
Government  of  its  53  equal  and  independent  member 
States. We reaffirm our shared commitment to working 
together  within  a  rules-based  international  system  to 
address  shared  global  challenges  and  foster  a  fairer, 
more  secure,  more  sustainable  and  more  prosperous 
future. That commitment takes account of the special 
requirements  of  the  least  developed  countries  and  of 
small and otherwise vulnerable economies and benefits 
all our citizens and the wider world.
But it is not enough for us merely to make the case 
for  cooperation.  We  need  action,  at  home  and  in  the 
community of nations, to show how our ideas and values 
can  deliver  practical  benefits  for  all  our  people  in  all 
parts of the world. We must recognize the legitimacy 
of people’s concerns and act to build a global economy 
that works for everyone. We must invest in the patient 
18-29871
45/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
work of building open societies in which everyone has 
a  stake  in  the  future.  And  we  must  act  to  uphold  the 
international rules-based system and stand up for our 
values  by  protecting  those  who  may  suffer  when  it  is 
violated. Let me take each in turn.
First,  we  must  respond  to  those  who  feel  that  the 
global  economy  is  not  working  for  them;  the  pace  of 
globalization that has left too many people behind; the 
fear that our children and grandchildren may lack the 
education  and  skills  to  secure  the  jobs  of  tomorrow; 
and  the  risk  that  technological  change  could  become 
a  source  of  inequality  and  division  rather  than  the 
greatest opportunity in history. In the United Kingdom 
we  are  driving  investment  in  industries  of  the  future 
to  create  new  jobs,  from  low-carbon  technologies  to 
artificial intelligence. We are investing in education and 
skills so that workers are ready to make the most of the 
opportunities that lie ahead. And we are making sure 
people play by the rules so that business and innovation 
is celebrated for creating jobs, not demonized because 
of grievances over tax not paid or rights not respected.
While we strive to make our own economies work 
for all our people, we should do the same at a global level. 
In an increasingly global economy, it is not enough to 
ensure people play by the rules at home. We need global 
cooperation to set and enforce fair rules on trade, tax 
and the sharing of data. And those rules need to keep 
pace with the changing nature of trade and technology. 
We need to give the World Trade Organization a broad, 
ambitious and urgent mandate to reform. It must address 
the  areas  where  it  is  not  functioning  effectively,  deal 
with issues that are not currently covered and maintain 
trust in a system that is critical to preventing a return to 
the failed protectionism of the past.
Fair and respected rules are essential for business to 
flourish and drive growth. But recent history shows that 
that  cannot  be  sustained  without  deeper  partnerships 
among Governments, business, international financial 
institutions  and  civil  society  to  ensure  that  growth 
delivers  for  everyone.  That  is  why  I  recently  visited 
Africa, along with British businesses, to promote trade 
and investment and encourage a new partnership based 
on shared prosperity and shared security. It is why at 
this  General  Assembly  session  I  co-hosted  an  event 
with  Prime  Minister  Trudeau,  President  Kagame  and 
President  Akufo-Addo,  calling  for  more  support  for 
investment  and  job  creation  for  young  people  on  the 
continent. It is why the United Kingdom will maintain 
its  commitment  to  spending  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  income  on  official  development  assistance 
and  put  our  development  budget  at  the  heart  of  our 
international agenda. We will do more to create jobs, 
improve  skills  and  increase  investment  in  emerging 
economies — in both our interests and theirs, for the 
best way of resisting protectionism is to ensure that this 
century is defined by open markets that really deliver 
for all our people.
Secondly,  we  must  build  countries,  not  only 
economies, that work for everyone: inclusive societies 
where every citizen has a stake in the future. Those are 
the firm foundations on which strong and accountable 
nations are built. History has consistently taught us that 
giving people a stake in society is the best way to ensure 
stability, security and economic growth. There is no one 
right way to do this. Every country must choose its own 
path, but the basic tenets are common across the world. 
They  include  a  Government  that  is  transparent  and 
accountable,  an  independent  judiciary  to  enforce  the 
rule of law, free and fair elections and a free and open 
media. They also include freedom of expression, a right 
to  redress,  property  rights  that  are  reliably  enforced, 
equality,  freedom  of  thought,  opinion,  religion  and 
conscience — all found in the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, signed 70 years ago.
Those  of  us  who  believe  in  those  tenets  must  set 
an  example  in  defending  and  strengthening  them  at 
home  and  abroad.  That  is  why  we  must  call  out  hate 
speech,  anti-Semitism,  Islamophobia  and  all  forms 
of  prejudice  and  discrimination  against  minorities 
wherever  we  find  it.  Like  many  leaders,  I  suspect, 
I  do  not  always  enjoy  reading  what  the  media  in  my 
country writes about me. But I will defend their right to 
say it, for the independence of our media is one of my 
country’s greatest achievements and it is the bedrock of 
our democracy.
So, too, will I defend objectivity and impartiality 
in  the  face  of  those  who  treat  truth  as  just  another 
opinion  to  be  manipulated.  This  challenge  has  only 
become more complex with the rise in social media and 
online information. That is why we agreed at the Group 
of Seven (G-7) Summit in June to step up our efforts 
to  respond  to  disinformation  and  why,  together  with 
our  partners  and  with  technology  companies,  we  are 
leading  efforts  to  reclaim  the  Internet  from  terrorists 
and others who would do us harm.
Just  as  we  must  stand  up  for  the  values  that  we 
adhere to, so we must support countries and leaders who 
46/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
choose to take the often difficult steps towards a more 
inclusive society. The United Kingdom will use all the 
levers at its disposal to do so. Through our aid budget 
and  commitment  to  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, we will not only protect the most vulnerable, but 
also bolster States under threat and help others sustain 
their  progress.  Through  global  campaigns,  we  will 
help countries to end scourges such as modern slavery 
and sexual violence in conflict, and we will mobilize 
wider  support  through  our  alliances  and  membership 
of  multilateral  organizations  —  not  only  the  United 
Nations,  but  also  international  financial  institutions, 
the G-7, the Group of 20 and NATO.
Just  as  there  is  no  single  recipe  for  an  inclusive 
society,  so  there  is  no  single  model  for  balancing  the 
democratic demands of our public with the imperative 
to  cooperate  internationally.  The  vote  by  the  British 
people  to  leave  the  European  Union  (EU)  was  not  a 
rejection of multilateralism or international cooperation; 
it was a clear demand for decisions and accountability 
to  lie  closer  to  home.  I  believe  the  role  of  leadership 
in these circumstances is clear: it is delivering on the 
democratic  wishes  of  our  people  and  international 
cooperation, working with allies and partners in pursuit 
of our shared values.
Thirdly, we must have the will and confidence to 
act  when  the  fundamental  rules  that  we  live  by  are 
broken. This is not about repeating the mistakes of the 
past by trying to impose democracy on other countries 
through regime change, but we should not allow those 
mistakes  to  prevent  us  from  protecting  people  in  the 
face of the worst violations of human rights and human 
dignity. We should not allow those mistakes to paralyse 
the international community when its long-established 
norms are violated. We should not let our inability to 
prevent some of the worst conflicts today stop us from 
making every effort to ensure they do not happen again 
in future. If we stand back, we allow the world to become 
divided into spheres of influence in which the powerful 
dominate the weak and in which legitimate grievances 
go unaddressed. This is not just a moral imperative — it 
is also a matter of self-interest, for when barbarous acts 
and  aggression  go  unchecked,  dictators  and  terrorists 
are emboldened.
We must therefore have the confidence to act. When 
the Syrian regime used chemical weapons on its people 
again in April, it was Britain — together with France 
and  America  —  that  took  military  action  to  degrade 
the  Syrian  regime’s  chemical-weapons  capability  and 
deter  their  use.  Earlier  this  year,  when  Russia  used  a 
toxic  nerve  agent  in  a  sickening  attack  on  the  streets 
of  Salisbury,  the  United  Kingdom,  with  our  NATO, 
EU  and  other  allies,  took  action,  expelling  over  150 
Russian  intelligence  officers  in  the  largest  collective 
expulsion ever.
In  Burma,  following  the  damning  report  of  the 
Independent  International  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
Myanmar,  we  should  sow  the  same  confidence  to 
hold  accountable  those  responsible  for  the  appalling 
atrocities repeatedly inflicted by the Burmese military 
on the Rohingya, Shan and Kachin peoples since 2011. 
Similarly, we should gather evidence of Da’esh’s crimes 
worldwide, show ensuring justice for their victims and 
deterring those who might conduct such crimes in the 
future. But accountability alone is not enough. We must 
do  more  collectively  to  prevent  such  atrocities  in  the 
first place and address the causes of instability that can 
give rise to them.
The  United  Nations  has  a  critical  role  to  play, 
and  it  has  a  wide  range  of  levers  to  do  so,  from 
sanctions — which show the leaders of Iran and North 
Korea that they cannot act without consequence — to 
peacekeeping  missions,  such  as  that  in  South  Sudan, 
which is helping to prevent suffering and the collapse of 
law and order. To be able to effectively use those levers, 
the  Security  Council  must  find  the  political  will  to 
act in our collective interest. United Nations agencies 
must  deliver  the  reforms  that  the  Secretary-General 
has  started  to  become  more  agile,  more  transparent 
and better coordinated on the ground. To support those 
reforms, we must also ensure proper funding is targeted 
specifically  at  those  parts  of  the  United  Nations  that 
deliver results.
Seventy  years  ago,  the  General  Assembly  agreed 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Today 
we  must  renew  the  ideals  and  values  on  which  that 
Declaration  was  founded.  In  doing  so,  we  must  learn 
the  lessons  of  the  past  and  show  through  our  actions 
how  cooperation  between  strong  and  accountable 
States with open economies and inclusive societies can 
best deliver security and prosperity for all our people. 
As Kofi Annan said at the start of his second term as 
Secretary-General,
“I have sought to turn an unflinching eye to the 
failures of our recent past, in order to assess more 
clearly  what  it  will  take  for  us  to  succeed  in  the 
future.” (A/55/PV.105, p.3)
18-29871
47/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
In that spirit, let us show unflinching resolve to renew 
the  promise  of  freedom,  opportunity  and  fairness,  a 
promise  that  has  delivered  for  more  people,  in  more 
places, than at any other period in our history. Let us 
ensure  that  promise  can  be  fulfilled  for  our  children 
and grandchildren and for every generation to come.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland for the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Theresa  May,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, 
Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Chief 
Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I have great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah 
Abdullah,  Chief  Executive  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Afghanistan, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Abdullah (Afghanistan): Allow me to start by 
extending  my  congratulations  to  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  and  wishing  much  success  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session. Let me also assure her that, by working 
with Member States and the United Nations family, we 
look forward to advancing the seven priorities set out 
in the agenda of the General Assembly at its seventy-
third session.
From  this  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  provide  the 
General Assembly with the latest regarding the situation 
in  Afghanistan  and  the  gains,  opportunities  and 
challenges that my nation faces at this critical juncture, 
in addition to our views on other key global challenges.
The record of accomplishments by this institution 
over  the  past  73  years  demonstrates  that,  wherever 
it  might  be  and  whoever  it  might  impact,  we  cannot 
escape the ripple effect of, or de-link ourselves from, 
the global, national, communal and human connections 
that  bind  us,  whether  in  relation  to  the  environment, 
the climate, international finance or even the cyber and 
technology  arenas.  It  is  therefore  critically  important 
to  go  beyond  just  words,  the  duplication  of  effort  or 
ineffective models that intermingle and, at times, spur 
countervailing or lopsided interests.
As Albert Einstein once said, “We cannot solve our 
problems with the same level of thinking that created 
them”.  Whether  we  are  addressing  hunger,  acute 
poverty,  climate  change,  overpopulation,  terrorism, 
conflict, displacement, inequality or organized crime, 
we  all  share  and  own  bits  and  pieces  of  the  problem 
in  the  same  way  that  we  collectively  benefit  or  learn 
from  the  solutions.  As  a  result,  we  need  to  explore 
new means and identify new tools for reaching a wider 
consensus  through  more  thoughtful  dialogue  and 
results-oriented actions.
for 
To this day we do not have a globally and officially 
acceptable  definition 
terrorism,  a  nefarious 
phenomenon used by a rogue or politically connected 
criminal,  State  or  non-State  actor  using  religious, 
ideological, economic or psychological cover to disrupt 
the status quo, upend the global and nation State order 
and reach a particular set of radical goals through the 
sheer use of indiscriminate violence that no religion in 
its undistorted form condones.
While  we  are  determined  to  fight  with  vigour 
against newer versions of terror presenting themselves as 
remnants of Da’esh in a few pockets inside Afghanistan, 
we are still struggling to fully comprehend the role that 
terror breeding grounds, sanctuaries and funding pools, 
in many cases tied to criminal and illicit drug networks, 
play  in  the  use  and  spread  of  terrorism.  We  are  still 
trying to figure out how to render terrorism impotent as 
a policy tool used by some to further specific agendas.
For  example,  for  almost  a  quarter  of  a  century, 
Afghanistan experienced the loss of tens of thousands 
of innocent lives and major infrastructural damage. It is 
partly due to geography and partly due to shortsighted 
strategies and regional agendas that have generated an 
umbilical  reliance  on  non-State  actors,  used  to  keep 
others  unstable  through  violence  and  the  promotion 
of  extremism.  It  has  resulted  in  complacency  and 
impunity;  therefore,  we  need  to  do  more  and  go 
beyond  ineffective  norms  to  bring  about  change  and 
accountability. We have asked our neighbouring States, 
especially Pakistan, to help targeted societies, including 
their  own,  to  deal  with  this  menace.  We  are  looking 
forward to the timely and effective implementation of 
48/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
the recently agreed Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan 
for Peace and Solidarity.
All stakeholders need to agree to treat all shades of 
terrorism as one, shut down the breeding grounds and 
sanctuaries  and  prosecute  or  repatriate  the  violators. 
The response thus far has been sparse and insufficient. 
We are working with all countries, near and far, to bring 
about better results. On that basis, Afghanistan stands 
for  the  balanced  implementation  of  all  four  pillars  of 
the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, 
and  non-compliance  must  be  seriously  addressed  as 
well. My country has also begun a process of structured 
cooperation with the United Nations Office of Counter-
Terrorism, and we are supportive of regional initiatives 
through  forums  that  focus  on  such  priority  concerns. 
We  will  continue  to  engage  in  work  with  regional 
stakeholders in that regard.
intra-Afghan  dialogue  and 
Since we last met, Afghanistan turned a page and 
made  unprecedented  overtures  to  the  Taliban  to  be 
part  of  a  credible,  Afghan-owned,  Afghan-led  peace 
process  that  could  lead  to  a  just  and  comprehensive 
political  settlement  through  talks  and  reconciliation. 
On several occasions, we have pledged our commitment 
to  unconditional 
the 
restoration  of  all  rights  and  privileges  for  those  who 
agree to end the cycle of violence. We even announced 
a  unilateral  ceasefire  earlier  this  year,  which  was 
agreed to by the Taliban for a three-day period and gave 
Afghans a glimpse of what peace can look and feel like. 
Unfortunately,  extraneous  agendas  prevented  us  from 
replicating  a  second  ceasefire  more  recently,  but  we 
will not rest. We will have to pursue both what is right 
and attainable.
I want to express my sincere thanks to all nations, 
especially  the  United  States,  other  concerned  nations 
and  parties  —  including  the  Governments  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  of  Indonesia,  both  of 
which  recently  hosted  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  gatherings  —  the 
United  Nations  and  others  for  encouraging  all  sides 
to set the stage for a process that would lead to talks 
and  a  just  and  comprehensive  negotiated  settlement. 
Looking at the 25-year record, a prerequisite for talks is 
to learn from the history of peace engagement. We see 
that a dual approach is necessary to make sure that we 
win  peace,  but  also  protect  and  preserve  our  people’s 
gains  and  hard-earned  achievements,  which  include 
constitutional order, freedom of expression, human and 
gender rights and creating economic opportunities.
I want to pause here and pay tribute to Afghans who 
continue to suffer as a result of violence, as well as to 
our valiant National Security Forces for their steadfast 
defence of our nation and for standing tall and strong on 
the front line against terrorism.
There  are  two  important  popular  tests  on  the 
horizon  for  Afghanistan:  parliamentary  elections 
are  slated  for  next  month  and  presidential  elections 
for  next  year.  Drawing  on  past  experiences,  both 
President  Ashraf  Ghani  and  I  agree  that  political 
legitimacy is derived from the will of the people. While 
we  pursue  peace  efforts  and  deal  with  security  and 
governance challenges, we are reminded that, given our 
circumstances, eventually we must make sure that the 
electoral process is trustworthy and that the electorate 
can agree to a fairly credible and legitimate outcome.
Regardless of who wins or loses, Afghanistan’s future 
rests  on  nurturing  a  national  consensus  that  provides 
unity of purpose aimed at peace and political stability 
that  derives  legitimacy  from  foundations  that  are 
pluralistic, inclusive and democratic.
The President took the Chair.
In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  thank  the  United 
Nations  —  UNAMA  in  particular  —  the  European 
Union and all other contributors and donors for helping 
us  move  the  process  forward.  Furthermore,  we  look 
forward to the upcoming Geneva ministerial conference 
on  Afghanistan  in  November.  It  will  be  an  excellent 
occasion to evaluate our work and the path ahead since 
we last met with donors.
On the humanitarian front, Afghanistan also faces 
daunting tasks associated with an impending drought, 
refugee resettlement and internal displacement caused 
by climatic and national abnormalities, food insecurity 
and security threats. Those are estimated to impact two 
thirds of the country and the livelihoods of more than 
4 million people, with the potential to force 1 million 
more into migration. We sorely need to attend to their 
humanitarian needs. I want to thank the Office for the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs,  other  United 
Nations agencies, non-governmental organizations and 
donors  for  their  contributions  and  hard  work  on  the 
groun; however, we urge the international community 
to fully fund the 2018-2021 Afghanistan humanitarian 
response plan.
The  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the 
protection of oppressed people are core principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations, benefiting the promotion 
18-29871
49/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
and  preservation  of  international  peace  and  security. 
As a war-ravaged country, we sympathize with and feel 
for  the  people  of  Syria,  Yemen  and  other  victimized 
communities around the world. Likewise, we stand for 
the basic right to protection for the Rohingya population 
in  Myanmar.  Afghanistan  stands  in  full  support  of 
all  United  Nations  and  other  international  efforts 
aimed  at  achieving  a  just,  comprehensive  and  lasting 
settlement  to  the  question  of  Palestine,  including  the 
General Assembly’s call for an international protection 
mechanism for civilians.
Moreover, United Nations peacebuilding activities 
should  provide  due  focus  on  the  principle  of  national 
ownership, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development and the promotion of greater 
coherence  among  the  relevant  United  Nations  entities 
and agencies working on development.
With regard to the reform agenda, we stand in full 
support of efforts aimed at strengthening the role of the 
United Nations in the context of the Secretary-General’s 
initiatives.  The  establishment  of  the  Department  of 
Political  and  Peacebuilding  Affairs  is  a  welcome 
move,  as  is  the  setting  up  of  the  Office  of  Counter-
Terrorism.  We  look  forward  to  the  implementation 
of  the  resolution  adopted  on  the  repositioning  of  the 
United Nations development system and believe it will 
enhance our achievements in the establishment of One 
UN for Afghanistan.
Afghanistan’s active role within the United Nations 
system  is  currently  more  pronounced  than  ever.  Our 
chairmanship of the Third Committee during the seventy-
third session comes at a crucial time, as we have aimed 
to initiate and adopt several draft resolutions on shared 
themes,  including  victims  of  terrorism  and  the  threat 
of improvised explosive devices, in addition to refugee 
and  migrant  issues,  the  rights  of  children,  women’s 
empowerment,  human  rights,  social  development  and 
other relevant Committee agenda items.
Furthermore, Afghanistan’s election to the Human 
Rights  Council  for  the  first  time  in  2017  marked  our 
commitment  and  showcased  our  achievements  in  that 
regard. We remain party to major international protocols 
and  conventions  on  human  rights.  I  am  pleased  to 
inform the Assembly that Afghanistan recently passed 
a set of national laws on prohibiting cruel and degrading 
treatment, endorsed the law on prohibiting torture and 
combating human and migrant trafficking and adopted 
a code prohibiting child recruitment into our security 
forces. With regard to the latter, we are working closely 
with  the  Office  of  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict.
I  want  to  leave  this  rostrum  by  presenting  a  bold 
concept,  also  recently  mentioned  by  President  Ghani, 
that can form a new, visionary paradigm for my country 
and our region as we strive to end four decades of conflict 
and enter a new phase free of violence and the forced 
implementation  of  stagnant  ideas  and  spoiler  habits. 
It  is  a  concept  that  dwells  on  Afghanistan  becoming 
a  platform  of  cordiality  for  regional  and  hemispheric 
cooperation over the next few years, in sharp contrast 
to being pushed and pulled towards becoming an area 
of instability and confrontation.
Our  people,  who  pose  no  danger  to  anyone,  are 
demanding a fundamental change in which they can play 
a constructive and collaborative role across boundaries 
and help turn their country into a roundabout of people, 
goods,  services,  communications,  cooperation  and 
ideas across the wider region. I believe that, with the 
help of the international community, we can turn this 
concept  into  a  reality.  I  hope  to  further  engage  our 
regional  partners  in  helping  us  bring  this  vision  to 
fruition.  I  hope  that  the  Assembly  and  all  concerned 
Member States will play a supportive and positive role 
to put an end to years of agony and open up a new path 
leading to durable peace, stability and prosperity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the the Chief Executive of the Islamic 
Republic of Afghanistan for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Giuseppe Conte, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Italian Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Council of Ministers of 
the Italian Republic.
Mr.  Giuseppe  Conte,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Italian Republic, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Giuseppe  Conte,  President  of 
the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  Italian  Republic,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
50/52 
18-29871
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.8
Mr.  Conte  (Italy)  (spoke  in  Italian;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I am honoured 
to  take  the  floor  today  before  the  General  Assembly, 
as  the  spokesperson  for  the  will  of  the  Government 
and the people, to confirm our commitment alongside, 
and in favour of, the United Nations. The international 
community needs a truly effective multilateralism and 
a  United  Nations  that  is  strengthened  in  its  role  as  a 
pillar of an international system based on peace, justice 
and equity. We therefore continue to support the reform 
plan of the Secretary-General, now more so than ever 
in the delicate implementation process that awaits him. 
We want a United Nations that is closer to the people, 
that is able to respond to their security and well-being 
needs and that is ready to protect them from the pitfalls 
of  globalization,  which  offers  many  opportunities  but 
can also produce errant effects.
The  Italian  Government  has  made  those  same 
priorities  the  basis  of  its  action.  Government  action 
that does not give due consideration to ensuring that all 
of its citizens have equitable and fully dignified living 
conditions  is  not  action  that  I  can  consider  morally, 
much less politically, acceptable. When some accuse us 
of  souverainism  or  populism,  I  always  enjoy  pointing 
out  that  article  1  of  the  Italian  Constitution  cites 
sovereignty and the people. It is precisely through that 
provision that I interpret the concept of sovereignty and 
the exercise of sovereignty by the people. That approach 
does not modify the traditional position of Italy within 
the 
international  community  and,  consequently, 
towards  the  United  Nations.  Security,  the  defence  of 
peace and the values that best preserve it, as well as the 
promotion of development and human rights, are goals 
that we share and shall continue to pursue with courage 
and conviction at the national and international levels.
On  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  Italy  expresses  that 
will  through  its  candidature  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council. Respect for the inviolable rights of humankind 
is  one  of  the  pillars  on  which  the  Italian  Republic  is 
founded — our beacon, especially today, when we are 
called upon to address the immense challenges of the 
grave and prolonged crises in the Euro-Mediterranean 
area,  including  migratory  flows.  For  years,  Italy  has 
been  engaged  in  search-and-rescue  missions  in  the 
Mediterranean  Sea  and  has  saved  tens  of  thousands 
of  people  from  death,  often  single-handedly,  as  has 
frequently  been  acknowledged  by  those  who  say  that 
Italy has saved the honour of Europe.
The  migratory  phenomena  we  are  facing  require 
short-,  medium-,  and  long-term  responses  from  the 
entire  international  community  that  are  structured 
and multi-level. It is on that basis that we support the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. 
This is a challenge that can, and must, be met through 
an  approach  of  shared  responsibility,  in  a  logic  of 
partnership between the countries of origin, transit and 
destination of the flows, while taking into account the 
priority need to guarantee the dignity of the individual, 
but  also  the  firm  determination  to  fight  those  who 
trample  on  that  dignity  and  on  life  itself  through 
human trafficking.
Italy pursues the goals of international peace and 
security including during times of budgetary constraints. 
We  are  solidly  in  eighth  position  as  a  contributor 
to  the  regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we 
supplement  that  commitment  through  development 
initiatives,  both  at  the  bilateral  level  and  through 
United Nations agencies. Those initiatives are inspired 
by the Sustainable Development Goals inscribed in the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Poverty, 
inequality,  unemployment  and  the  devastating  effects 
of climate change are ills that concern every country, 
independently of their level of development.
The  logic  of  assistance  must  give  way  to  a 
framework  of  mutual  responsibility  and  partnership, 
as  promoted  by  Italy  —  for  example,  on  the  African 
continent — so that each stakeholder can do their part 
to the best of their possibilities and abilities.
Italy  is  proud  to  be  one  of  the  main  contributors 
to  peacekeeping  operations,  a  commitment  we  have 
maintained  for  many  years  and  for  which  we  have 
received  the  appreciation,  essential  to  us,  that  comes 
first and foremost from the local communities in which 
we are operating.
Italy  is  a  country  whose  very  DNA  contains  the 
promotion  of  dialogue  and  inclusiveness  in  crisis 
situations.  Those  principles  are  essential  when 
addressing  the  grave  and  widespread  situations  of 
instability that today characterize an area that is vital 
to the security and prosperity of Italy and Europe as a 
whole, namely, the greater Mediterranean.
In the upcoming weeks Italy will host a conference 
on  Libya,  the  main  goal  of  which  will  be  to  support 
a shared political path and contribute to the country’s 
political stabilization. That path will foster the broadest 
possible  involvement  of  Libyan  stakeholders,  who 
18-29871
51/52
A/73/PV.8 
26/09/2018
remain the masters of their destiny. The United Nations 
will  play  a  central  role  through  the  action  plan,  on 
which  all  the  contributions  of  the  main  international 
and regional stakeholders will converge.
The  long  conflict  that  has  roiled  Syria  for  seven 
years demonstrates all the limits of military solutions. 
We  have  the  duty  to  support  the  action  of  the  United 
Nations and of Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Staffan De Mistura.
Shared responsibility — in the framework of building 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies — is a call 
that  we  share  and  accept  as  an  invitation  to  change. 
The  same  spirit  of  change  characterizes  the  action  of 
the Government that I lead. But we must also assume 
that  responsibility  towards  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, in which Italy will continue to pursue its deep 
commitment,  in  dialogue  with  all  Member  States,  to 
achieve the goal of a shared reform.
We  should  all  aspire  to  the  path  to  effective 
cannot 
multilateralism.  Nevertheless, 
that  path 
disregard  the  need  for  every  member  of  the  human 
family to recognize in the United Nations true global 
leadership, to which they look with renewed faith.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Italian Republic for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Giuseppe  Conte,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Italian  Republic,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 3 p.m.
52/52 
18-29871
