United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
30th plenary meeting
Thursday, 1 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Agenda item 43 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/85)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.3)
Draft amendments (A/73/L.9 through 
A/73/L.16)
Ms. McGuire (Grenada): Grenada aligns itself with 
the  statements  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean 
Community, the Group of 77 and China, the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries and the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States (see A/73/PV.29).
Grenada  takes  the  floor  to  speak  in  its  national 
capacity  on  agenda  item  43,  entitled  “Necessity  of 
ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
presence of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
Grenada  maintains  its  unequivocal  opposition 
to  the  imposition  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  Cuba.  This  is  a  matter  of  grave  concern  to 
Grenada. Grenada shares in the widespread sentiment 
of  the  global  community  condemning  such  unilateral 
measures  imposed  on  sovereign  States.  Because  such 
actions are contrary to the tenets of the Charter of the 
United Nations, the embargo itself runs counter to the 
principles that the constitutive document sets forth.
In recent years, we have witnessed with hope and 
commendation  the  strides  taken  by  the  United  States 
Government  to  re-establish  diplomatic  relations  with 
Cuba  and  further  implement  several  policy  changes. 
But, alas, we have also witnessed the reversal of those 
measures. Grenada views the reversal of rapprochement 
efforts between the United States of America and the 
Republic  of  Cuba  as  unfortunate.  We  therefore  urge 
both parties to return to good-faith dialogue.
We continue to stand in firm opposition to laws and 
measures that encroach on and hinder the sovereignty, 
territorial integrity and equality, international trade or 
navigation  of  any  State.  Today,  we  renew  our  clarion 
call  for  all  necessary  steps  to  be  taken  to  repeal  or 
invalidate  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  on  the  Government  and  the  people 
of Cuba.
Grenada continues to believe that, with the support 
of multilateralism in this community of nations, there is 
still hope for the return to the normalization of relations 
between the two Governments in the spirit of true and 
sincere reconciliation and for this unilateral imposition 
to become a vestige of the past. For it is only in unity 
that we can earnestly fight to overcome the seemingly 
monumental difficulties in this world.
Grenada  therefore  calls  for  the  immediate  lifting 
of  the  unfair  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-35542 (E)
*1835542*

A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
embargo  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  and  reiterates  its 
unwavering  support  for  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3  on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba.
Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We align ourselves with the statements made 
yesterday  by  the  representatives  of  Morocco,  Egypt 
and  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States, the Group of 77 and China and the Movement of 
Non-Aligned Countries, respectively (see A/73/PV.29).
At the outset, I wish Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  a  very  warm 
welcome and a pleasant stay among us.
As  on  previous  occasions  throughout  the  years, 
Equatorial  Guinea  is  very  pleased  to  take  the  floor 
on  such  an  important  issue  as  the  need  to  lift  the 
embargo against Cuba. As in previous years and with 
persistence, our delegation unequivocally joins in the 
clamour of the voices of 191 of the 193 States Members 
of the United Nations calling for an end to an embargo 
that has gone on for more than half a century and has 
been  harming  the  noble  Cuban  people  economically, 
commercially, culturally and socially.
To  illustrate  the  evolution  of  the  situation  and 
countries’  positions  with  statistics,  in  1992  59  States 
voted in favour of that year’s resolution, to 3 against, 
with  71  abstentions  and  46  absent  (resolution  47/19). 
In  2000,  167  voted  in  favour,  to  3  against,  with  4 
abstentions  and  15  absent  (resolution  55/20).  In  2015, 
191  countries  voted  in  favour,  to  2  against,  with  no 
abstentions  (resolution  70/5).  In  2016,  191  countries 
voted  in  favour,  to  none  against,  with  2  abstentions 
(resolution 71/5). In 2017, 191 countries voted in favour, 
to 2 against, with no abstentions (resolution 72/4).
When,  in  2016,  aware  of  the  global  clamour  and 
overwhelming  call  for  an  end  to  the  embargo,  the 
Government  of  the  United  States,  through  then-
President Barack Obama, took initiatives and decisions 
for the realization of that near-unanimous global demand 
from  among  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
world  population  in  general  and  the  Cuban  people  in 
particular, we were filled with optimism to finally see 
the  fulfilment  of  such  a  long-awaited  desire.  In  fact, 
the diplomatic missions of both countries were opened 
and trips to the United States and Cuba were conducted 
by  top  leaders  of  both  countries.  Commercial  flights 
were  resumed  and  other  measures  were  taken,  which 
suggested a promising horizon for the total unblocking 
of  and  the  end  of  the  unilateral  isolation  imposed 
against Cuba.
It  is  with  the  positive  developments  of  the  years 
2015  and  2016  in  mind  that  our  delegation  takes 
advantage  of  this  meeting  to  once  again  —  as  it  has 
done  and  will  continue  to  do  —  launch  an  appeal  to 
the Government of the United States to continue along 
the path already laid out by President Obama by fully 
implementing resolution 72/4, on the immediate lifting 
of the blockade against Cuba in all its aspects. We are 
counting on the United States Government to listen to 
these appeals and this clamour and, as a result, agree 
to pursue and strengthen the actions already initiated, 
so that when the seventy-fourth session of the General 
Assembly is held in 2019, this issue will no longer be 
on the agenda, and so that it will be, by then, relegated 
to the annals of history.
Despite 
the  unilateral  embargo  and 
isolation 
imposed  by  the  United  States,  Cuba  has  been  able  to 
achieve  very  high  levels  in  the  human  development 
index,  with  an  active  and  very  fruitful  South-South 
cooperation programme with dozens of countries from 
different parts of the planet — including my country, 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  —  with  broad 
educational and health cooperation. 
If  it  reached  excellent  levels  of  development  in 
the health, education, sociocultural and other sectors, 
can  we  imagine  the  heights  this  brave  country  could 
have  reached  had  it  not  suffered  this  unjust  embargo 
and  blockade?  Without  this  embargo  and  blockade, 
Cuba  would  deploy  all  its  productive,  scientific, 
commercial,  cultural,  social,  health,  educational  and 
sports  potential  involved,  and  its  impact  would  be 
much greater, with benefits not only for Cuba and the 
countries with which it cooperates, but for many more 
countries in the community of nations.
In  conclusion,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
reiterates  that  it  condemns  and  opposes  the  embargo 
against  Cuba,  expresses  its  total  solidarity  with  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Cuba,  and  once  again 
calls on the current United States Government to use 
the  mechanisms  already  established  by  the  previous 
Administration and within the framework of the United 
Nations  by  proceeding  to  the  unconditional  lifting  of 
the embargo against Cuba.
2/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
Mr.  Suan  (Myanmar):  First  of  all,  my  delegation 
wishes  to  welcome  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
The  Myanmar  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statements made by the representatives of Venezuela, 
Egypt  and  Singapore,  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned Countries, Group of 77 and China, and the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, respectively.
My  delegation  joins  the  overwhelming  majority 
of  United  Nations  Members  in  calling  for  an  end  to 
the  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba, which has no justification whatsoever in 
a multilateral rules-based system.
Myanmar  believes  in  the  fundamental  principles 
of sovereign equality, non-interference in the internal 
affairs  of  other  States  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes,  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. We are against the extraterritorial application 
of the blockade and the politicization of human rights 
issues,  as  they  run  counter  to  international  law  and 
the Charter of the United Nations. My delegation has 
therefore consistently supported and voted in favour of 
the annual resolution on this topic for the past 26 years, 
and we will continue to do so today.
The unilateral economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba 
over the past 56 years has caused considerable suffering 
to the people of Cuba. The embargo has significantly 
affected  the  economic,  social  and  environmental 
development  of 
the  Cuban  people,  particularly 
its  women  and  children.  We  fully  understand  and 
sympathize with the people of Cuba in their suffering 
and  hardship,  as,  in  the  recent  past  and  for  over  two 
decades, we were also subjected to unilateral sanctions.
It  is  therefore  with  great  hope  that  we  welcomed 
the rapprochement between Cuba and the United States 
with  the  resumption  of  diplomatic  relations  and  the 
subsequent official visit of President Obama to Havana 
in  2016.  Furthermore,  the  United  States  abstained  in 
the voting on resolution 75/5 of 26 October 2016. All 
of  these  developments  were  positive  and  encouraging 
steps  towards  ending  the  56-year  unilateral  embargo, 
which would have benefited both countries.
Myanmar  would  like  to  encourage  the  United 
States and Cuba to continue dialogue and negotiations 
to achieve the full normalization of bilateral relations 
based  on  the  principles  of  sovereign  equality  and 
mutual respect. The total lifting of the embargo would 
alleviate  the  economic  and  social  hardship  of  the 
Cuban people, thereby helping their efforts to achieve 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
leave  no  one  behind.  It  would  also  contribute  to  the 
economic development of both countries — the United 
States and Cuba — as well as to the peace, stability and 
development of the region as a whole.
We  are  convinced  that  the  United  States  and 
Cuba  have  the  wisdom  and  capacity  to  overcome 
this  protracted  political  problem  between  their  two 
countries.  Myanmar  will  continue  to  support  every 
constructive  effort  to  end  the  embargo  as  soon 
as possible.
The President: I now give the floor to the Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  wish  to  express  my  condolences  to  the  people  and 
the  authorities  of  the  City  of  Pittsburgh,  the  State  of 
Pennsylvania and the United States for the events that 
transpired in the Tree of Life Synagogue, in which 11 
people  were  killed.  We  also  express  our  condolences 
to the people and the Government of Indonesia for the 
air disaster that occurred on 29 October, in which 189 
people lost their lives.
On  25  June,  Adam  López  Macias,  a  181-day-old 
boy,  underwent  surgery  to  correct  a  life-threatening 
congenital  heart  defect,  the  transposition  of  the  great 
arteries,  an  anatomical  problem  in  which  the  arteries 
are  reversed.  The  surgery  lasted  five  hours.  His 
unstable  condition,  subsequent  hypotension,  or  low 
blood  pressure,  and  bradycardia,  a  slow  heartbeat, 
meant  that  he  had  to  remain  with  his  small  sternum 
open until 29 June, that is, for 96 hours.
The  embargo  prevents  Cuban  children  suffering 
from postoperative low cardiac output due to insufficient 
blood being pumped by the heart — the most frequent 
complication  of  paediatric  heart  surgery  —  from 
receiving  the  best  treatment,  that  is,  the  advanced 
paediatric  ventricular  assist  device,  which 
the 
United  States  companies  HeartWare  Inc.,  located  in 
Massachusetts,  and  Thoratec  Corporation,  located  in 
Pleasanton,  California,  manufacture  and  protect  with 
patents. How can one measure the suffering of the small 
boy  and  his  family?  Adam  recovered  thanks  to  the 
professionalism  and  dedication  of  the  Cuban  medical 
staff and the efforts of an entire country.
18-35542
3/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
On  13  December  2017,  Rosa  Esther  Navarro 
Ramirez,  who  was  born  at  37  weeks,  had  to  undergo 
surgery. At the time, she was 14 months old, and had 
anomalous  pulmonary  venous  drainage,  that  is,  when 
oxygenated blood mixes with deoxygenated blood. The 
girl  then  suffered  from  ventricular  fibrillation  —  a 
rapid and irregular heartbeat — and, during 27 days of 
great distress for her parents, was treated for pulmonary 
hypertension,  or  increased  blood  pressure  in  the 
small  lung  arteries,  without  being  able  to  receive  the 
appropriate drug — inhaled nitric oxide, which cannot 
be readily obtained in an emergency and transported by 
aeroplane, since it is flammable and combustible and 
requires  special  conditions  for  transportation  by  sea. 
If there had been no embargo, the medicine could have 
swiftly been requested from the United States company 
Datex  Ohmeda,  which  produces  the  beneficial  drug 
and the system by which it is administered. Rosita was 
saved despite the cruelty of that policy.
A  13-year-old  girl  from  Guantánamo  with  a 
malignant  spinal  tumour  and  a  5-year-old  boy  from 
Havana  with  a  tumour  between  the  brainstem  and 
the  cerebellum,  whose  names  I  clearly  must  not 
disclose,  could  not  be  treated  with  the  optimal  drug 
temozolomide,  which  is  manufactured  in  the  United 
States, although they have fortunately recovered from 
their conditions.
The  company  Illumina  is  the  world  leader  in 
next-generation  sequencing,  which  ensures  the  most 
accurate cancer diagnosis and is the basis for precision 
medicine and the specialized treatment of patients. The 
suppliers of specialized drugs usually require that type 
of diagnosis in order to administer them.
In  2017,  224  people  per  100,000  inhabitants  died 
in  Cuba  because  they  did  not  have  access  to  those 
treatments due to the embargo. In the past year, more 
than  30  United  States  companies,  including  Agilent, 
Cook  Medical  and  Thermo  Fisher  Scientific,  refused 
to sell drugs, supplies and equipment essential to our 
health  system  through  the  company  Medicuba  or  did 
not respond to its repeated requests. No mother in this 
Hall  or  on  this  planet  can  help  but  be  moved  by  the 
cases I have described.
The  human  harm  caused  by  the  embargo,  which 
qualifies as an act of genocide under article 2 (b) and 
(c) of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment 
of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  of  1948,  is  incalculable. 
It  is  even  a  violation  of  international  humanitarian 
law.  The  human  suffering  cannot  be  measured.  The 
purpose  of  the  embargo,  anchored  in  the  Cold  War, 
has  remained  unchanged  over  time.  The  infamous 
classified  memorandum  of  6  April  1960  from  the 
Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  State,  Lester  Mallory, 
guides the current United States Administration’s Cuba 
policy, stating:
“There  is  no  effective  political  opposition  ... 
The only foreseeable means of alienating internal 
support is through disenchantment and disaffection 
based  on  economic  dissatisfaction  and  hardship 
...  every  possible  means  should  be  undertaken 
promptly  to  weaken  the  economic  life  of  Cuba... 
denying  money  and  supplies  to  Cuba  to  decrease 
monetary  and  real  wages,  to  bring  about  hunger, 
desperation and overthrow of government.”
As an exception, we welcome the recent signing of 
an agreement, under a special licence that has existed 
since 2016, that established a joint venture between the 
marketing  agency  of  the  Cuban  Centre  of  Molecular 
Immunology  and  the  Roswell  Park  Cancer  Center, 
which will allow for therapeutic vaccines manufactured 
with  Cuban  technology  to  treat  head,  neck  and  lung 
cancer to be sold in the United States. Under a special 
licence issued in 2017, Cuba will also be allowed to buy 
81,000 doses of the hormonal contraceptive Mesigyna 
from a United States subsidiary of the Bayer company.
Moreover, the embargo is the main obstacle to the 
flow of information and broader access to the Internet 
and  information  and  communication  technologies  for 
all Cubans, since it hinders connectivity and makes it 
more expensive in the archipelago, restricts access to 
their  platforms  and  technologies  and  uses  cyberspace 
for actions aimed at regime change.
that  hostile  policy, 
The  embargo  also  obstructs  cultural,  academic, 
scientific,  sports  and  civil  society  exchanges.  In 
exercising 
the  United  States 
Government, under unbelievable pretexts and for truly 
political  reasons,  fails  to  comply  with  the  number 
of  immigrant  visas  for  Cubans  agreed  as  part  of  the 
migration  agreements  in  force.  It  has  made  family 
reunification and temporary visits by Cubans to their 
country  more  difficult  and  increased  the  cost  and 
has restricted family ties. The blockade is a flagrant, 
massive  and  systematic  violation  of  Cubans’  human 
rights,  and  has  been  and  continues  to  be  a  major 
impediment to several generations who yearn for their 
well-being and prosperity.
4/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
These  policies  also  affect  Cubans  residing  in  the 
United States. Furthermore, the blockade is oppressive 
for United States citizens, as it unjustly and arbitrarily 
restricts  the  freedom  to  travel  to  Cuba  —  the  only 
destination in the world forbidden to them.
The  United  States  Government 
is  crudely 
manipulating  and  politicizing  the  universal  desire 
for  human  rights  for  all  and  for  the  implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  through  draft 
amendments  A/73/L.9  through  A/73/L.16,  which  it 
has proposed with the sole purpose of adulterating the 
nature  and  focus  of  the  annual  resolution  against  the 
blockade,  which  the  Assembly  has  adopted  26  times, 
and the goal of fabricating a pretext to find some sort 
of  international  endorsement  to  continue  to  tighten 
it,  which  the  Assembly  will  not  allow.  A  shameless 
memorandum  that  the  State  Department  circulated 
last week to accredited diplomats, which I have in my 
hands, acknowledges that, “Our proposed amendments 
are  intended  to  address  the  underlying  reason  for  the 
embargo.” In the same document, the State Department 
points out with unabashed cynicism,
“Last year, direct reference was made to the United 
States  embargo  undermining  collective  efforts  to 
implement  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
We heard [the delegations] loud and clear. Cuba’s 
actions clearly threaten those Goals, and, in order to 
fully implement them, we need [those delegations’] 
support on amendments.”
That  acknowledges  the  lack  of  respect  that  the 
Ambassador  of  the  United  States  to  the  United 
Nations and the State Department have for the United 
Nations,  multilateralism  and  the  General  Assembly, 
which, last year, she called a “political theatre” (A/72/
PV.38,  p.  9).  This  recently  circulated  memorandum 
truly  makes  a  mockery  of  multilateralism,  decency 
in  international  politics  and  the  great,  universal  and 
democratic Assembly.
I also call attention to the fact that the memorandum 
misleadingly  implies  that  the  text  of  the  amendments 
was previously agreed so as to surreptitiously introduce 
other  contents  referring  to  another  issue,  by  another 
body  and  another  country.  Once  again,  we  see  the 
practice  of  lying,  deceit  and  immorality  in  political 
discourse. Draft amendment A/73/L.7, which originally 
was a single amendment comprised of eight paragraphs, 
was later transformed into eight separate amendments, 
with the sole intention of creating confusion, wasting 
time and wearing out the Assembly. It is an unethical 
ploy.  If  the  United  States  Government  wanted  to 
consider  and  put  to  the  vote  initiatives  related  to 
human rights or to the Sustainable Development Goals, 
we  would  be  willing  to  do  that  immediately  under 
the  auspices  of  any  body,  at  any  time  and  under  any 
relevant  agenda  item.  We  will  continue  to  encourage 
dialogue  and  cooperation  as  the  only  way  to  foment 
progress in the exercise of human rights, and we will 
continue  to  actively  and  constructively  participate  in 
the Human Rights Council and its Universal Periodic 
Review and maintain our cooperation with every one 
of its universal mechanisms.
The  United  States  Government  does  not  have  the 
least  moral  authority  to  criticize  Cuba  or  any  other 
country  in  the  area  of  human  rights.  We  reject  the 
repeated  manipulation  of  them  for  political  ends  and 
the double standards that go along with it. The United 
States  Government  is  responsible  for  crimes  against 
humanity.  It  was  that  country  that  used  a  nuclear 
weapon on a civilian population. It develops weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  It  is  currently  starting  a  new 
arms race. It is perfecting nuclear weapons, extremely 
lethal  conventional  weapons  and  lethal  autonomous 
weapons,  and  it  is  militarizing  cyberspace  and  outer 
space.  The  United  States  Government  is  the  one  that 
has  established  military  dictatorships  and  organized 
bloody coups d’état.
With  the  wars  that  its  Government  has  waged  in 
recent  years,  it  has  caused  the  deaths  of  millions  of 
people,  many  of  whom  were  innocent  civilians,  as 
well  as  waves  of  refugees  and  the  consequent  human 
suffering. Its Government has resorted to extrajudicial 
executions,  kidnapping  and  torture.  It  is  holding 
prisoners indefinitely in legal limbo, without recourse 
to legal defence, courts or due process at the naval base 
in  Guantanamo  —  territory  that  it  illegally  usurped 
from us.
The  Government  of 
rights  violations  against 
the  United  States  has 
committed  human 
its 
own  citizens,  particularly  African-Americans  and 
Hispanics,  minorities,  refugees  and  migrants.  Within 
a country of great opulence, 40 million United States 
citizens live in poverty, and 52 million Americans live 
in impoverished communities. More than half a million 
of its citizens sleep in the street, which the Ambassador 
does not mention. Some 12 per cent of Americans do 
not have medical insurance, and 1 million low-income 
persons  will  be  deprived  of  it  by  their  Government. 
18-35542
5/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
Quality  education  is  not  accessible  to  the  majority  of 
people, whom their Government neither represents nor 
champions. Equal opportunities in the United States are 
a pipe dream. The Government that the United States 
delegation is part of is one comprised of millionaires 
who adopt brutal policies.
For the same job, women earn 82 per cent of what 
men make, while African-American women earn 64 per 
cent, and Hispanic women, 62 per cent. Accusations of 
sexual harassment are widespread. The average wealth 
of  white  families  is  seven  times  greater  than  that  of 
families  of  African  descent.  The  mortality  rate  for 
African-American  children  less  than  one  year  of  age 
is  double  that  for  white  children.  African-American 
mothers  are  three  to  four  times  more  likely  to  die  in 
childbirth than white mothers, and half of them would 
survive  with  better  medical  care,  which  the  State 
Department never calls for.
There  is  a  difference  in  racial  patterns  in  the 
United  States  prison  population,  in  the  length  of 
prison  sentences,  in  the  use  of  capital  punishment, 
which is also applied to minors and mentally disabled 
persons,  and  in  appalling  deaths  by  the  discharge  of 
police weapons.
The  United  States  Government  builds  walls, 
separates  minors,  including  young  children,  from 
their  migrant  parents  and  locks  them  up  in  cages. 
False  information  and  the  monopolization  of  digital 
communication  platforms  and  content  creation  are 
increasing. The United States Government intervenes 
unscrupulously in the electoral processes and internal 
affairs of the majority of our States. It is attempting to 
overthrow the legitimate Government of the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela by force, while waging a brutal 
defamation campaign, threatening military action and 
calling for violence and a coup d’état. It is intervening 
in  and  attempting  to  destabilize  the  Republic  of 
Nicaragua.  It  is  interfering  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia.  The  Government 
of  the  United  States  is  seeking  to  exercise  imperial 
domination in our Americas, invoking once again the 
outdated, aggressive and dangerous Monroe Doctrine 
and resorting to gunboat diplomacy. It has redeployed 
its Fourth Fleet and increased the number and capacities 
of its military bases in the region.
The  United  States  is  party  to  only  30  per  cent  of 
major human rights instruments and does not recognize 
the rights to life, peace, development, security or food, 
nor does it recognize the rights of children. It is hardly 
surprising  that  it  has  withdrawn  from  the  Human 
Rights  Council.  Corporate  special 
interests  have 
hijacked  the  United  States  political  system,  which  is 
corrupt by definition.
Words and political discourse do matter. They are 
important. By demonizing and making enemies through 
propaganda targeting political opponents, institutions, 
social  groups  and  nations,  they  fuel  and  propagate 
division, violence, hate crimes and wars. The impunity 
enjoyed by the arms lobby is to blame for the increase 
in  murders,  including  those  involving  teenagers.  We 
have seen worsening levels of dirty politics, indecency, 
amorality,  lying,  the  gerrymandering  of  electoral 
districts for political ends and voter manipulation. Six 
million  low-income  Americans  were  prevented  from 
voting in the previous presidential elections, and they 
will probably be prevented from voting next Tuesday. 
In  Florida,  21  per  cent  of  African-American  voters 
are disenfranchised.
The  quantifiable  cumulative  damage  caused 
by  the  almost  six-decade-long  blockade  amounts  to 
$933.678  billion,  adjusting  for  the  devaluation  of  the 
dollar against the price of gold. In present-day dollars, 
the blockade has caused more than $134.499 billion in 
financial damages. In the past year alone, it has led to 
losses  of  approximately  $4.321  billion  for  Cuba.  Had 
Cuba received revenues it was unable to receive from 
the export of goods and services and not incurred costs 
associated with the geographical reorientation of trade, 
which requires our country to maintain extremely large 
inventories, Cuba’s gross domestic product would have 
increased  at  an  approximate  average  annual  rate  of 
10 per cent, in current-day prices, over the past decade.
Faced  with  such  challenges,  Cuba  has  managed 
to  make  economic  progress  and  provides  broad  and 
supportive international cooperation — which the United 
States Government is increasingly hindering — despite 
the  blockade  and  forbidden  access  to  multilateral 
credit, while at the same time reaching internationally 
recognized  levels  of  human  development  and  social 
justice. The blockade continues to be the main obstacle 
to  the  implementation  of  both  the  2030  national  plan 
and the Sustainable Development Goals. It undermines 
the  exercise  of  the  right  of  the  Cuban  people  to 
self-determination,  peace,  development, 
security 
and justice.
6/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
The blockade constitutes a violation of the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  international  law.  It  is  an  act  of  aggression  and 
economic war in breach of peace and the international 
order.  It  also  violates  the  internationally  recognized 
rules of trade and freedom of navigation. It violates the 
principles  of  the  Proclamation  of  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean  as  a  Zone  of  Peace  and  runs  contrary 
to the consensus reached by the Community of Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  and  the  world.  It 
engenders the isolation of and discredits the Government 
of the United States and calls for the judicious rejection 
of the international community.
We  are  living  in  a  time  of  increasing  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security,  the  proliferation 
of  unconventional  wars,  gross  violations  of 
the 
sovereignty  of  States,  policies  of  domination  through 
the  use  of  force,  attempts  to  reimpose  the  unipolar 
order,  of  breaches  of  international  law,  the  ominous 
and  arbitrary  breaking  of  international  treaties,  and 
propagation  of  unilateral  sanctions  and  trade  wars, 
essentially  caused  by  the  predatory  and  supremacist 
nature  of  United  States  imperialism,  based  as  always 
on  the  principles  of  neoliberalism,  the  philosophy  of 
dispossession  and  so-called  peace  based  on  force. 
As  a  result,  grave  international  issues  are  becoming 
more  acute,  poverty  and  inequality  are  on  the  rise, 
the 
irrational  and  unsustainable  production  and 
consumption  cycles  of  capitalism  are  harder  felt, 
climate  change  is  accelerating  unstoppably,  together 
with all of its negative consequences, and the nuclear 
threat is at a dangerously heightened level.
Moreover,  the  extraterritorial  imposition  of  the 
blockade  has  been  ferociously  intensified,  especially 
with regard to crippling measures affecting the financial 
transactions  and  banking  and  credit  operations  of 
Cuba  at  the  international  level.  More  than  a  hundred 
banks have requested the closure of the accounts of our 
embassies and representative offices abroad. They have 
either withheld funds destined for Cuba or refused to 
execute  transfers  from  and  to  our  country,  including 
funds  intended  for  humanitarian  purposes,  such  as 
those  intended  to  deal  with  the  impact  of  Hurricane 
Irma  in  Cuba,  or  for  Cuban  solidarity  cooperation 
projects in other nations. The blockade runs contrary to 
the Charter and international law, and its aggressively 
extraterritorial implementation harms the sovereignty 
of all States.
Since the 1898 military occupation of Cuba by the 
United  States  to  hinder  our  independence,  which  had 
already  been  won  in  a  prolonged  and  epic  struggle, 
our relationship has been marked by the efforts of the 
Government  of  the  United  States  to  control  the  fate 
of  Cuba  in  the  face  of  the  unwavering  determination 
of  the  Cuban  people  to  defend  our  independence  and 
self-determination. Today, Cuba is a fully independent 
nation.  Master  of  its  destiny,  it  develops  relations 
based  on  respect  and  enjoys  bonds  of  friendship  and 
cooperation  with  all  the  countries  of  the  world.  We 
have  achieved  that  through  the  sacrifices  of  several 
generations, and we will defend it at any cost.
In  terms  of  our  relations  with  the  United  States, 
we  have  diplomatic  relations  and  some  instances  of 
official dialogue, and we are developing some mutually 
advantageous  cooperation  in  a  limited  number  of 
areas.  But  the  defining  characteristic  of  our  bilateral 
relationship continues to be the economic, commercial 
financial blockade that punishes all the people of Cuba 
and  comes  from  a  place  of  domination,  ideological 
intolerance  and  political  revenge.  Amid  the  deep 
differences that exist between Cuba and the Government 
of the United States, we are willing to pursue a peaceful 
coexistence that is based on mutual respect, sovereign 
equality and the benefit of both peoples.
The Cuban people will continue to freely determine 
our internal affairs in close unity, just as we are doing 
in the public debate on the draft of the new Constitution 
and  as  we  will  do  in  the  upcoming  referendum  to 
adopt  it.  There  is  no  space  —  nor  will  there  be  any 
space — for the interference of a foreign Power. I must 
make  it  known  that  the  escalation  of  statements,  acts 
and threats from the United States Government against 
Cuba has no other aim than to foster a climate of greater 
bilateral  tension,  and  that,  in  this  scenario,  public 
figures  with  long  histories  of  conspiracy  to  provoke 
bilateral crises are becoming increasingly visible.
As President Miguel Díaz-Canel Bermúdez stated 
on 26 September in this Hall,
affect  our  national 
“Cuba  will  always  remain  willing  to  engage  in 
dialogue  and  cooperation  based  on  respect  and 
equal treatment. We will never make concessions 
that 
and 
independence. We will not barter our principles or 
accept conditions.” (A/73/PV.8, p. 35)
Cubans  of  all  generations  will  adhere  with 
invariable  loyalty  to  the  example  of  José  Martí  and 
sovereignty 
18-35542
7/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
proclaim with his same conviction that, the south and 
north seas would merge and a serpent would hatch from 
an eagle’s egg before we would yield in our efforts to 
make the homeland free and prosperous.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in the debate on this item. The Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 43.
The  General  Assembly  shall  now  resume  its 
consideration of agenda item 43 to take action on the 
draft resolution issued as document A/73/L.3 and the 
draft amendments contained in documents A/73/L.9 to 
L.16.
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, to introduce draft resolution A/73/L.3.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  deeply  thank  all  those  who  have  expressed  their 
rejection of the blockade imposed against our country. 
To  the  citizens  of  all  nations,  and  to  the  growing 
majority  of  Americans  who  have  joined  us  in  this 
cause for peace, justice, goodwill and human dignity, 
and in the name of the heroic, selfless and supportive 
Cuban people, I ask those present to vote in favour of 
the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document  A/73/L.3, 
on the necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of America against Cuba. The process of adopting the 
draft resolution has begun, and I understand that any 
intervention with regard to the substance would be in 
violation of the rules. Madam President, I hope that you 
will enforce those rules.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  give 
the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the  United  States 
to  introduce  the  draft  amendments  contained  in 
documents A/73/L.9 to A/73/L.16.
Mrs.  Haley  (United  States  of  America):  This  is 
the twenty-seventh year that the General Assembly has 
held this vote. Every year, with the exception of one, the 
United  States  has  voted  against  this  draft  resolution. 
As  this  draft  resolution  is  currently  constructed,  the 
United States will oppose it again today.
Cuba and its allies do the same thing every year. 
They  propose  a  draft  resolution  blaming  Cuba’s 
poverty, repression and lack of freedom on the United 
States. They falsely blame America for all kinds of evil 
things, even genocide. But this draft resolution changes 
nothing. It does not help a single Cuban family. It does 
not feed a single Cuban child. It does not free a single 
Cuban political prisoner. Those who support this draft 
resolution  every  year  have  it  wrong.  Our  reason  for 
the  embargo  is  and  always  has  been  Cuba’s  denial  of 
freedom and the most basic human rights to the Cuban 
people. The United States will continue to stand with 
the  Cuban  people  until  their  rights  and  freedoms  are 
restored. Period. We will not back down.
Last  year,  we  were  joined  by  just  one  nation  in 
voting  against  resolution  72/4,  and  that  is  fine;  we 
were in very good company. We have no problem with 
standing alone on behalf of the things that we believe 
in and will proudly do so again today if necessary. But 
the  most  regrettable  fact  of  this  draft  resolution  each 
year is not that the United States may not stand alone 
in opposing it, but that the draft resolution is a waste 
of everyone’s time. It is one more time that countries 
feel  they  can  poke  the  United  States  in  the  eye.  But 
they  are  not  hurting  the  United  States  when  they  do 
this;  they  are  literally  hurting  the  Cuban  people  by 
telling the regime that their treatment of their people 
is acceptable.
For 27 years we have had this debate, and nothing 
has changed in Cuba — at least nothing for the better. 
Supporters  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3  claim  that 
a  change  in  the  policy  of  the  United  States  would 
somehow transform life for the Cuban people. But the 
Government of Cuba does not agree. It responded to the 
softening  of  our  Cuba  policy  under  President  Obama 
with more, not less, political repression of its people. 
The sorry state of liberty and human rights in Cuba is 
not lost on anyone in this Hall, even as countries vote to 
blindly support the same resolution every year.
The proof is in the statements delivered by countries 
during  this  annual  debate.  Many  of  us  care  deeply 
about the lack of freedom of expression and assembly 
in  Cuba,  the  arbitrary  arrests  and  detentions,  and  the 
status of women and labour. We have listened carefully 
to  our  fellow  countries’  statements  in  this  debate, 
studied their comments from last year, and taken their 
messages to heart. We read last year’s statement by the 
European Union and we agree with it wholeheartedly. 
The European Union called on Cuba to
“fully grant its citizens internationally recognized 
civil, political, and economic rights and freedoms, 
freedom  of 
including 
freedom  of  assembly, 
8/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
representatives, 
expression, and free access to information” (A/72/
PV.38 p. 27).
Yesterday,  multiple 
speaking 
both  for  their  own  countries  and  for  regional  groups, 
expressed  concern  for  the  realization  in  Cuba  of 
the  goals  of  prosperity,  human  rights  and  human 
dignity contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (see A/73/PV.29). Last year, the Permanent 
Representative  of  Gabon,  speaking  for  the  Group 
of  African  States,  expressed  the  same  concern  (see 
A/72/PV.38). The Ambassador of Singapore, speaking 
for  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  also 
expressed the desire to end poverty and promote human 
rights  and  gender  equality  in  Cuba,  in  line  with  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (ibid.) The Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
speaking  for  the  Caribbean  Community,  echoed  that 
support,  as  did  the  Ambassador  of  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
speaking for the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 
and  the  Venezuelan  ambassador,  speaking  on  behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement (ibid.). Furthermore, in 
their national capacities, the Permanent Representatives 
of  India,  South  Africa,  Mexico,  Indonesia,  Chad  and 
St. Kitts and Nevis all advocated Cuba’s achievement 
of the Sustainable Development Goals (see A/72/PV.38 
and A/72/PV.39).
We  have  studied  Member  States’  expressions  of 
support for freedom and human rights in other countries 
where, like Cuba, they are denied. For example, there 
are striking parallels between the suffering of the Cuban 
people under the Castro dictatorship and its successors 
and  the  suffering  of  the  Iranian  people  under  the 
dictatorship of the mullahs in Tehran. Like the Castro 
regime, the Iranian regime violently represses dissent, 
imprisons and kills its political opponents, and abuses 
women,  and  religious  and  ethnic  minorities.  Like  the 
Castro dictatorship, the Tehran Government has rigged 
its economy in favour of its regime and its cronies. And 
both  Governments  use  these  stolen  funds  to  finance 
their aggression abroad.
Each  year,  the  General  Assembly  adopts  a  draft 
resolution condemning the Iranian regime’s violations 
of  human  rights.  Last  year,  resolution  72/189  was 
adopted with the support of 81 Member States. Eighty-
one countries made the decision to use the Assembly’s 
time and prestige to do what the United Nations does 
best — what it is meant to do. Eighty-one countries put 
the weight of the international community behind the 
principles of peace, security and human rights in Iran.
They did not just pay lip service to those principles; 
they put them in a draft resolution, which they then put 
to a vote. They won. But most importantly, the cause 
of human rights in Iran won. The time has long passed 
for the General Assembly to do the same for Cuba and 
for the same reasons. How can delegations feel strongly 
about  Iran  and  not  about  Cuba?  Countries  that  are 
concerned about the arrest of political opponents and 
journalists, the lack of access to the Internet, and the 
absolute authority of the Government to restrict travel 
both within and from Cuba should have the opportunity 
to vote to put themselves and the Assembly on record.
The United Nations does not have the ability or the 
authority  to  end  the  United  States  embargo  of  Cuba. 
But the United Nations has the unique ability to send a 
moral message to the Cuban dictatorship. We should use 
our megaphone to do something that has the potential 
to actually improve the lives of the Cuban people. The 
United  States  has  proposed  a  series  of  amendments 
to draft resolution А/73/L.3. These amendments have 
been taken directly from the Member States. They are 
their  expressions  of  hope  for  human  rights  in  Cuba. 
The content has been supplied by the Member States; 
the words of these draft resolutions are their words.
This year, delegations will be asked to vote not just 
on the American embargo, but also on Cuba’s political 
prisoners, the country’s lack of freedom of expression, 
and  its  oppression  of  workers.  This  year,  delegations 
have the opportunity to do something that will send an 
unmistakable  message  to  the  people  of  Cuba  that  the 
world is not ignoring their suffering.
For  decades,  the  General  Assembly  has  failed  to 
demonstrate leadership in advocating a better life for 
the Cuban people. Today, it can show leadership. I call 
on  the  Assembly  to  vote  to  affirm  the  human  rights 
and freedoms of the Cuban people that it extends to so 
many other countries. I call on Member States to vote 
in favour on each and every amendment proposed by 
the  United  States.  We  call  on  the  General  Assembly 
today to show the world that it stands for human rights 
and human dignity.
To  the  people  of  Cuba,  I  once  again  say  that 
the  United  States  will  continue  to  stand  with  them, 
regardless of what others do. We will stand with them 
until the day comes that we can stand together as free 
peoples in our shared neighbourhood.
18-35542
9/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  shall  now 
proceed to consider draft resolution A/73/L.3 and draft 
amendments A/73/L.9 to A/73/L.16.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the voting, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  should  be  limited  to  10  minutes 
and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from  their  seats. 
I would ask delegations that take the floor to explain 
their vote to do so only once, that is, either before or 
after the consideration of all draft documents presented 
for a vote.
Mr. Charwath (Austria): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its member 
States.  The  candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania; the 
country  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  process 
and  potential  candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina; 
and  the  European  Free  Trade  Association  country 
Liechtenstein,  member  of  the  European  Economic 
Area, align themselves with this statement.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed by the United States on Cuba has a damaging 
impact  on  the  economic  situation  of  the  country  and 
negatively  affects  the  living  standards  of  the  Cuban 
people. External trade and foreign investment will play 
a crucial role in setting the country on a path towards 
sustainable  growth.  The  EU  therefore  considers  that 
lifting the embargo could facilitate the opening of the 
Cuban economy for the benefit of the Cuban people.
The  EU  believes  that  positive  change  in  Cuba 
is  best  brought  about  by  closer  engagement  at  all 
levels — Government, economy and civil society — but 
also through people-to-people exchanges. We therefore 
deeply regret the reintroduction of restrictions on United 
States relations with Cuba by the current United States 
Administration.  The  measures  restricting  individual 
self-directed  travel  in  particular  not  only  curtail  the 
possibility for engagement with the Cuban people, but 
also are hitting Cuba’s burgeoning private sector, which 
has benefited the most from such individual visits.
cannot  accept  that  unilaterally  imposed  measures 
impede  our  economic  and  commercial  relations  with 
Cuba. The EU Council of Ministers therefore adopted 
a regulation and a joint action to protect against undue 
interference and problems for EU citizens, businesses 
and non-governmental organizations residing, working 
or operating in Cuba.
It is crucial that the United States continue to fully 
respect  and  implement  the  agreement  reached  at  the 
summit  between  the  European  Union  and  the  United 
States  held  in  London  in  May  1998.  This  agreement 
covers waivers to Titles III and IV of the Helms-Burton 
Act,  a  commitment  by  the  United  States  Government 
to resist future extraterritorial legislation of that kind, 
and  an  understanding  regarding  disciplines  for  the 
strengthening of investment protection.
For the EU, opening doors and closer engagement 
are the way to go with Cuba. The date of 1 November 
2018  marks  the  first  anniversary  of  the  provisional 
application  of  the  EU-Cuba  Political  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation Agreement (PDCA). The agreement has put 
our bilateral relationship on a new and solid legal footing 
and sets out an agenda of critical engagement with Cuba 
that will also allow us to support and accompany Cuba 
on its path of reform and modernization. We are also 
enhancing dialogue and cooperation on issues on which 
we still have fundamental differences. To this end, the 
PDCA  has  established  a  human  rights  dialogue  as  a 
key pillar of our relationship. The first formal meeting 
of the Dialogue, which was held in a constructive and 
open atmosphere, took place last month.
We  reiterate  our  call  on  the  Cuban  Government 
to  fully  grant  its  citizens  internationally  recognized 
civil,  political  and  economic  rights  and  freedoms, 
including  the  freedom  of  assembly,  the  freedom  of 
expression and free access to information, to ratify the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and Cultural Rights, and to extend invitations to United 
Nations special rapporteurs to visit Cuba.
Beyond  the  damaging  impact  of  the  embargo  on 
ordinary  Cubans,  unilateral  United  States  sanctions 
and  other  unilateral  administrative  and 
judicial 
measures  are  also  negatively  affecting  EU  economic 
interests.  We  have  firmly  and  continuously  opposed 
any  such  measures,  owing  to  their  extraterritorial 
impact  on 
in  violation  of 
commonly  accepted  rules  of  international  trade.  We 
the  European  Union, 
We take due note of the amendments proposed by 
the United States. Such concerns were indeed brought 
up by several EU member States at the recent Universal 
Periodic Review of Cuba at the Human Rights Council. 
However,  the  EU  considers  that  they  have  no  place 
in  the  present  draft  resolution,  which  addresses  a 
different,  largely  economic  topic.  In  a  particularly 
sensitive  context,  separate  subjects  should  not  be 
10/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
mixed.  Any  amendments  not  directly  related  to  the 
subject matter should be avoided, as they risk unduly 
confusing the issue.
Following the generational leadership change that 
took place in Cuba last April and in the context of the 
ongoing constitutional reform process, we call on Cuba 
to pursue a comprehensive reform and modernization 
agenda,  extend  economic  and  social  reforms,  and 
implement such reforms in a manner that will address 
the  key  concerns  of  the  Cuban  population  and  the 
legitimate aspirations of the Cuban people for greater 
opportunities  to  participate  in  the  shaping  of  their 
country’s future.
With 
the  EU-Cuba  Political  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation  Agreement, 
the  EU  offers  Cuba  a 
consistent  and  reliable  partnership  to  support  it  as  it 
seeks to reform its political and economic model, pursue 
sustainable  development  and  find  common  solutions 
to global challenges, while we continue to vigorously 
promote  democracy  and  respect  for  human  rights.  It 
is our considered view that the United States embargo 
does  not  contribute  to  promoting  these  aims,  but 
impedes  their  achievement.  Against  this  background, 
the  States  members  of  the  European  Union  will  vote 
unanimously in favour of draft resolution A/73/L.3.
Mr.  Blanchard  (Canada):  As  it  has  always  done, 
Canada  will  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba (A/73/L.3).
to 
With  respect 
the  proposed  United  States 
amendments to draft resolution A/73/L.3, Canada will 
vote against them.
(spoke in French)
Canada wishes to clarify that by voting against these 
amendments,  it  is  not  voting  on  the  substance  of  the 
amendments themselves. The reason Canada is voting 
against  these  amendments  proposed  by  the  United 
States is that this draft resolution is not the appropriate 
framework  in  which  to  consider  Cuba’s  compliance 
with its international human rights obligations.
Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  Not  long  ago,  in  the 
General Assembly Hall and from this very rostrum, the 
whole world paused as leader after leader praised one 
of  the  greatest  human  beings  that  ever  lived,  Nelson 
Mandela. We extolled his virtues, his principles and the 
peace and reconciliation that he preached and lived by. 
At  the  end  of  the  day,  we  all  committed  ourselves  to 
a decade of peace. It was a beautiful moment and, to 
borrow the words of the former President of the United 
States, Barack Obama, “a teachable moment”.
Mandela’s life, his philosophy and what he stood for 
can be summed up in one word, ubuntu, which means 
humanness or conscience. Humanness is not found in 
the big declarations we make or the grand projects and 
programmes  that  we  craft  as  philanthropic  gestures. 
Rather, it is in the simple, small, mundane, day-to-day 
things  we  do  to  each  other,  for  each  other,  with  each 
other and against each other that our humanness, our 
ubuntu, is defined.
As  we  consider  the  draft  resolution  before  us  on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba (A/73/L.3), let us ask ourselves 
in good conscience, are we living up to the test and the 
standard of ubuntu, of humanness, that we all extolled 
Mandela for living up to?
My  country,  Zambia,  has  many  differences  with 
how Cuba is run day by day, as well as with how the 
United  States  of  America  is  run  day  by  day.  Indeed, 
we have many differences with how every country in 
the world is run day by day. However, what we know 
and  are  prepared  to  defend  without  equivocation  is 
that  these  differences  in  perspective  on  life  and  on 
governance are the right of the people of each country 
to  decide  for  themselves,  in  accordance  with  their 
history, their culture and their circumstances. What is 
not  in  contention,  and  should  never  be  in  contention 
is that the thread of life, the thread of humanness that 
runs  in  every  Cuban,  is  the  same  thread  that  runs  in 
every one of us and in every American.
I 
learned 
recently  how 
the  American 
law-
enforcement community resented the use of the phrase 
“mass  incarceration”  to  describe  the  phenomenon  of 
the high incidence of a sector of the population being 
imprisoned compared to other sectors. They said that 
every  person  arrested  was  arrested  as  an  individual 
and  tried  as  an  individual  for  each  crime  committed 
and  on  the  specific  evidence  relating  to  each  crime 
for  which  each  individual  was  charged.  Just  as  the 
United States law enforcement community rejects that 
group characterization, so too should the United States 
Government  not  continue  with  the  group  punishment 
of  the  people  of  Cuba,  with  the  embargo  imposed 
on  ordinary  people  who  have  committed  no  crime 
18-35542
11/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
whatsoever  against  the  Government  or  the  people  of 
the United States.
When  we  stand  at  this  rostrum  and  say  what  we 
are saying, we are not doing so as a lynch mob baying 
for  the  blood  of  the  United  States.  We  have  a  saying 
in my country: one who tells someone how ugly they 
are  is  a  good  friend.  The  United  States  is  a  good 
friend.  We  say  these  things  to  appeal  to  its  sense  of 
ubuntu  —  humanness  —  in  the  treatment  of  the 
people  of  Cuba.  We  say  these  things  to  appeal  to  the 
United  States  to  live  up  to  the  high  standards  that  it 
has  set  for  itself  —  the  standard  of  democracy  that 
compels all of us, if we choose to practice democracy, 
to  accept  the  decision  of  the  majority.  For,  time  after 
time,  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  world  —  the 
Members of the United Nations — has voted in favour 
of  this  resolution  calling  on  the  United  States  to  lift 
the embargo.
The United States is a big, powerful country — a 
great  country.  As  stated  in  the  Bible,  to  whom  much 
is  given,  much  is  expected.  Greatness  lies  not  in  the 
ability to subdue, but in the ability to uplift and inspire. 
Greatness lies not in the ability to destroy, but in the 
ability  to  repair  and  build.  Greatness  lies  not  in  the 
ability to benefit from power, but in the ability to use 
power to protect the small and the weak and to enable 
the unable.
I beseech all of us to learn from the palm tree that 
withstands storm after storm. That greatness lies not in 
the ability to stand straight and rigid, but in the ability 
to  stoop  low,  to  the  level  of  one  whom  the  gales  of 
winds have knocked down, and lift them up.
My  delegation  will  vote 
draft resolution.
in 
favour  of 
the 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The General Assembly will now take a decision on 
draft resolution A/73/L.3, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
In accordance with rule 90 of the rules of procedure, 
the  Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  the  draft 
amendments  contained  in  documents  A/73/L.9  to 
A/73/L.16, one by one.
Before  proceeding  to  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.3  and  draft  amendments  A/73/L.9 
to  A/73/L.16,  I  wish  to  inform  members  that  I  have 
been  approached  by  several  delegations  concerning 
the  majority  required  for  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
proposals.  Having  taken  note  of  the  statements  made 
by  Member  States  in  the  debate,  I  shall  put  to  the 
consideration of the Assembly the question of whether 
a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  members  present  and 
voting is required for the adoption of draft resolution 
A/73/L.3 and the amendments contained in documents 
A/73/L.9 to A/73/L.16, in accordance with rules 83 and 
84 of the rules of procedure.
I shall first give the floor to delegations that wish to 
take the floor in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla  (Cuba):  Before  adopting 
any decision, it should be crystal clear to all Member 
States  that  proposals  presented  under  item  43  of  the 
agenda  of  the  seventy-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba, are important questions by virtue of rule 83 of 
the General Assembly’s rules of procedure.
In  assigning  the  agenda  items  of  the  seventy-
third  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  indicated 
in  document  A/73/252,  the  Assembly  defined  item 
43 — as it has done for more than a decade — under 
the heading of “Maintenance of international peace and 
security”. Rule 84 of the General Assembly’s rules of 
procedure, establishes that
“Decisions  of 
the  General  Assembly  on 
amendments  to  proposals  relating  to  important 
questions,  and  on  parts  of  such  proposals  put  to 
the vote separately, shall be made by a two-thirds 
majority of the members present and voting.”
Therefore,  in  order  to  be  adopted,  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.3  and  the  draft  amendments  contained  in 
documents A/73/L.9, A/73/L.10, A/73/L.11, A/73/L.12, 
A/73/L.13, A/73/L.14, A/73/L.15 and A/73/L.16 require 
the  support  of  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  members 
present and voting.
As  the  Assembly  has  seen,  I  am  requesting,  in 
accordance with the rules of procedure of the General 
Assembly,  that  item  43  be  considered  an  important 
question  and  that  all  of  those  decisions,  including  on 
the draft amendments, be adopted only by a two-thirds 
majority.  Cuba  would  appreciate  that  countries  vote 
in favour of the motion by voting yes to this proposal 
made by Cuba.
12/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
The President (spoke in Spanish): At this point, I 
would like to clarify that, in accordance with Article 
18, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations, 
this question will be settled by a simple majority of the 
members present and voting.
Mrs. Haley (United States of America): A simple 
majority  is  required  for  the  adoption  of  the  United 
States-proposed  draft  amendments.  Cuba’s  draft 
resolution  and  our  amendments  do  not  rise  to  the 
standard  required  for  a  two-thirds  majority.  They  are 
solely about economic, human rights and social issues. 
I would refer the membership to a decision made by the 
Assembly on 22 June, in which the Assembly decided 
that a resolution on the Republic of Moldova (resolution 
72/282)  would  be  subject  to  a  simple  majority  of  the 
members  present  and  voting.  If  that  resolution,  on 
Russia’s  military  forces  in  Moldova,  was  subject  to 
a  simple  majority,  then  surely  this  one,  on  economic, 
human  rights  and  social  issues,  with  its  related  draft 
amendments, is also subject to a simple majority.
I urge all Member States to vote against a decision 
that a two-thirds majority is required.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
We  will  now  proceed  to  take  a  decision  on  the 
question  of  whether  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the 
members present and voting is required for the adoption 
of draft resolution A/73/L.3 its draft amendments.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan, 
Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brunei 
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic, 
Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Mongolia,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Nicaragua, 
Niger,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama, 
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Barbados,  Canada,  Georgia,  Israel, 
Peru, Republic of Moldova, Ukraine, United States 
of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Belgium,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Fiji, 
Finland,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liberia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta, 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea, 
Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tuvalu,  United  Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
the 
By 126 votes to 9, with 52 abstentions, the General 
Assembly  decided  that  a  two-thirds  majority  of 
the members present and voting was required for 
the  adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3  and  its 
draft amendments.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
has decided that a two-thirds majority of the members 
present and voting is required for the adoption of draft 
resolution  A/73/L.3.  Therefore,  pursuant  to  rule  84 
of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  a 
two-thirds majority of the members present and voting 
is also required for the adoption of draft amendments 
A/73/L.9 to A/73/L.16.
18-35542
13/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
We  will  now  proceed  to  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/73/L.3 and draft amendments A/73/L.9 to 
A/73/L.16.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
amendment contained in document A/73/L.9.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana, 
Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic 
Republic of), Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Fiji, 
Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan, 
Kuwait, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mexico, 
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Yemen
Draft amendment A/73/L.9 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 113, with 67 abstentions.
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Yemen  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote against.]
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.10.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana, 
Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya, 
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, 
Norway,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
14/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey, 
Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Draft amendment A/73/L.10 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 115, with 65 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.11.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Draft amendment A/73/L.11 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 114, with 66 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.12.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
18-35542
15/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
In favour:
Israel, Marshall Islands, Ukraine, United States of 
America
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Draft amendment A/73/L.12 was rejected by 4 votes 
to 114, with 65 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.13.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
16/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Draft amendment A/73/L.13 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 114, with 65 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.14.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Draft amendment A/73/L.14 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 114, with 66 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.15.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
18-35542
17/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Draft amendment A/73/L.15 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 114, with 66 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment 
contained in document A/73/L.16.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, Ukraine, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Eswatini,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Bulgaria,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Oman, 
Palau, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of Korea, Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
18/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay
Draft amendment A/73/L.16 was rejected by 3 votes 
to 114, with 66 abstentions.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  shall  now 
proceed  to  consider  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3,  as 
a whole.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central 
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Eswatini, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago, 
Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel, United States of America
Draft resolution A/73/L.3, as a whole, was adopted 
by 189 votes to 2 (resolution 73/8).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the  floor  to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  after  the 
voting, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mrs.  Haley  (United  States  of  America):  I  am 
always  taken  aback  when  I  hear  applause  in  the 
Chamber  at  moments  like  this  because  there  are  no 
winners here today; there are only losers. The United 
Nations  has  lost.  It  has  rejected  the  opportunity  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  human  rights.  The  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  commits  every  country  here  to  the 
promotion  of  peace,  security  and  human  rights,  and 
that Charter was betrayed today. Once again, we were 
reminded why so many people believe that faith in the 
United Nations is often misplaced. The countries that 
profess to believe in human rights have lost, too. They 
have earned a justified measure of doubt that they will 
act to defend their beliefs. And, most of all, the Cuban 
people have lost. They have been left once again to the 
brutal  whims  of  the  Castro  dictatorship.  They  have 
been abandoned by the United Nations and by most of 
the world’s Governments.
But  the  Cuban  people  are  not  alone  today.  The 
United States of America stands with them. The people 
of Cuba are our neighbours and our friends, and they 
are fellow children of God. The American people will 
stand with them until they are restored the rights that 
God  has  given  us  all,  rights  that  no  Government  can 
legitimately deny its people.
18-35542
19/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
While today’s votes were not admirable, they were 
highly illuminating. That light contributes to the cause 
of  truth,  which  is  the  essential  basis  of  freedom  and 
human rights.
Mr.  Bermúdez  Álvarez  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  thank  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  United  States  for 
presenting the draft amendments that were submitted 
during  today’s  meeting.  Uruguay  chose  to  abstain  in 
the voting on the draft amendments that were proposed. 
My  delegation  will  not  speak  on  the  content  of  the 
paragraphs  submitted  to  a  vote,  but  rather  on  their 
appropriateness and objective.
Uruguay  is  a  firm  defender  of  human  rights  and 
has always worked actively to promote them. Uruguay 
has  also  been  a  part  of  collective  efforts  to  ensure 
their  incorporation  into  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals as well as their actual implementation. We will 
continue to do so in all of the appropriate forums where 
these topics are taken up. We understand that it would 
not be appropriate in this specific case to incorporate 
the  draft  amendments  that  refer  to  these  matters  in  a 
resolution  whose  text  has  been  supported  practically 
unanimously by the entire membership for more than a 
quarter of a century.
First  of  all,  the  matters  referred  to  in  the  draft 
that  were  part  of 
amendments  were  not 
resolution 73/8. The topic of the resolution that we are 
dealing  with  is  specific  and  targeted:  it  refers  to  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against Cuba.
issues 
Secondly,  including  those  changes  would  have 
distorted  the  essence  of  the  resolution.  The  changes 
would dilute the main and specific objective, which is 
to put an end to the unilateral coercive measures that 
have been applied for more than 50 years against that 
Caribbean country. The draft amendments would have 
diverted  the  focus  of  the  resolution  on  the  lifting  of 
the blockade. Because they dealt with issues that were 
related to human rights, Uruguay could not vote against 
them. That is the reason we abstained.
The  blockade  cannot  be  justified  in  any  way. 
This  resolution  must  continue  to  be  brief,  clear  and 
blunt,  expressing  very  clearly  and  firmly  that  the 
embargo  is  unacceptable  and  illegitimate  because 
it  violates  international  law  and  goes  against  the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations.
With  respect  to  the  resolution  to  put  an  end  to 
the  embargo,  first  of  all  we  would  like  to  welcome 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  and  thank  him  for  the  detailed 
introduction of the resolution.
As  Uruguay  has  always  done,  my  country  voted 
once again in favour of the resolution put forward by 
the  Cuban  delegation,  in  the  understanding  that  that 
the  unilateral  economic,  financial  and  commercial 
embargo against the country goes against international 
law and violates the purposes and principles enshrined 
in the Charter. The position of Uruguay is a part of a 
context of respect for the sovereign equality of States, 
non-intervention,  as  well  as  the  peaceful  dispute 
settlement, principles that lie at the core of my country’s 
foreign  policy.  As  a  matter  of  principle,  Uruguay 
rejects  and  does  not  acknowledge  the  extraterritorial 
application  of  the  domestic  laws  of  other  States,  or 
of  any  other  direct  or  indirect  mechanism  that  would 
constitute a unilateral action by any State, and whose 
objective  would  be  to  sanction  the  decisions  adopted 
in political, economic, commercial, social and cultural 
matters,  or  other  matters  of  another  sovereign  State. 
In  that  respect  my  country  does  not  support  the 
implementation  of  the  course  of  unilateral  measures 
applied by the United States against Cuba.
laws 
Uruguay also believes that the unilateral sanctions 
and  extraterritorial 
imposed  against  Cuba 
lead  to  very  serious  consequences  for  the  economic 
development  of  the  country  and  undermine  the  well-
being of its population, as they impede their legitimate 
right  to  development  and  cause  material  damage 
against  the  dignity  and  sovereignty  of  the  Cuban 
people. By voting in favour of the resolution, Uruguay 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  multilateralism,  which 
we  see  as  a  legitimate  means  of  resolving  disputes 
between  States  and  as  an  effective  tool  to  promote 
international cooperation.
The  process  of  rapprochement  between  Cuba 
and  the  United  States  and  the  measures  of  mutual 
détente that were adopted some time ago with a view 
to  improving  the  bilateral  climate  were  a  historic 
step.  They  constituted  unprecedented  progress  and 
demonstrated that understanding is possible. Uruguay 
regrets  the  current  chill  in  relations  between  the  two 
countries, and we kindly urge a return to the path of a 
bilateral dialogue, which would lead to the benefits of 
peace, understanding and stability in our region.
20/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  I  would  like  to 
begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Cuba for his expression of condolences and sympathies 
with respect to the recent aviation incident in Indonesia.
The  General  Assembly  has  consistently  opposed 
the  imposition  of  unilateral  economic  measures  as 
an  instrument  of  political  and  economic  coercion. 
Therefore, it is regrettable that the General Assembly 
has to meet once again to consider and vote on lifting 
the embargo.
Indonesia  reaffirms  its  fundamental  belief  that 
unilateral  economic  measures  as  a  means  of  political 
and  economic  coercion  against  country  and,  in  this 
regard,  the  continued  imposition  of  an  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba, 
contradict  the  main  principles  of  international  law, 
including the Charter of the United Nations, the norms 
and  principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among 
States, the principle of the sovereign equality of States, 
the principle of non-intervention and non-interference 
in each other’s domestic affairs, as well as international 
humanitarian  law.  Indonesia 
therefore  joined  the 
majority of the States Members of the United Nations 
by  voting  in  favour  of  resolution  73/8,  as  proposed 
by Cuba.
Indonesia 
is  concerned  about 
the  prolonged 
negative  impacts  of  the  blockade  on  economic  and 
social  development  in  Cuba.  The  blockade  remains 
an  obstacle  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  for  the  Cuban  people.  We 
support efforts to ensure that the Government and the 
people  of  Cuba  can  achieve  sustainable  development 
and  be  an  integral  part  of  the  global  economic,  trade 
and  financial  system.  Towards  that  goal,  we  call 
for  dialogue  and  cooperation  and  the  removal  of  the 
embargo on Cuba.
Ms.  Yánez  Loza  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
In  making  this  explanation  of  vote  I  wish  to  refer  to 
the  statement  made  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Ecuador, Mr. Lenin Moreno Garcés, in the general 
debate on 25 September. In that statement, he cited a 
passage  from  the  Declaration  of  Independence  of  the 
United  States  on  the  intrinsic  equality  of  all,  in  the 
sense that
In that regard, it is incomprehensible that a country, 
the Constitution of which is based on those principles 
and concepts — values that are the foundation of the 
international human rights regime — should maintain 
in  force  the  provisions  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial blockade against Cuba. Ecuador therefore 
once  again  reiterates  its  concern  that  this  issue  has 
remained under consideration by the General Assembly 
for  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century,  without  a  clear 
signal  regarding  the  total  repeal  of  the  provisions  of 
the blockade.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/73/85), 
which compiles the responses of Governments, organs 
and agencies of the United Nations system and entities 
participating  as  observers  in  the  General  Assembly, 
highlights 
the  adverse  socioeconomic  effects  on 
Cuba  of  the  implementation  of  the  measures,  as  well 
as  the  almost  unanimous  support  of  the  international 
community for ending the embargo.
to  undermine 
The  embargo  continues 
the 
common  desire  for  harmonious  coexistence  among 
countries,  particularly  now  as  collective  efforts  seek 
to  consolidate  and  accelerate  processes  towards  the 
full  implementation  of  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and its goals.
My  country,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
international law, in line with the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  regardless  of  political  or  ideological 
orientations,  has  consistently  voted  in  favour  of  this 
resolution submitted by Cuba.
Ms.  Bird  (Australia):  Australia  agrees  with  the 
United  States  that  Cuba  has  human  rights  issues  to 
address. Australia recently put its concerns on record 
through the statement it delivered at the 2018 Human 
Rights Council Universal Periodic Review of Cuba.
financial  embargo 
We do not, however, believe that using resolution 
73/8,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic 
commercial  and 
imposed  by 
the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”,  is  the 
appropriate way to raise those human rights concerns. 
Australia therefore abstained in the voting on the draft 
amendments  and,  consistent  with  our  long-standing 
position, voted in favour of the resolution.
“all men are created equal, that they are endowed 
by  their  creator  with  certain  unalienable  rights, 
that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness” (A/73/PV.6, p.13).
Mr. Carazo (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): Costa 
Rica reaffirms its absolute commitment to the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Consistent  with  its  policy  of  peace,  commitment  to 
18-35542
21/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
multilateralism and strict respect for international law, 
my country reiterated its historic support for Cuba by 
voting  in  favour  of  resolution  73/8  today.  Costa  Rica 
has  remained  consistent  in  its  position,  both  at  the 
regional and international levels, on the need to lift the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
on Cuba, which directly affects the Cuban people.
With  respect  to  the  draft  amendments  that  were 
presented  to  the  draft  resolution,  which  were  voted 
on  prior  to  the  resolution,  Costa  Rica  felt  that  those 
proposals  would  alter  the  scope  of  the  resolution  and 
distort it, which is why we abstained in the voting in 
order to maintain the integrity and ultimate purpose of 
the resolution.
I would like to conclude by reiterating our conviction 
that  it  is  only  through  a  frank,  open  and  transparent 
dialogue,  within  the  framework  of  international  law, 
can  differences  between  countries  be  addressed  and 
resolved. In voting against the economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  on  Cuba,  Costa  Rica 
has  reaffirmed  its  complete  rejection  of  unilateral 
measures that any State would take against another.
Mr.  Verdier  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  presence  of 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, and thank him for his very detailed 
introduction of resolution 73/8.
Argentina fully associates itself with the statements 
made by the representatives of Egypt, on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  and  El  Salvador,  on  behalf 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, and wishes to make the following remarks in its 
national capacity.
Argentina’s  historic  position  is  that  the  United 
States  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against  Cuba,  which  is  contrary  to  international  law, 
in  particular  the  principles  of  sovereign  equality  of 
States,  non-intervention  in  internal  affairs,  freedom 
of  international  trade  and  navigation  and  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  must  be  ended.  As  part  of  its 
full commitment to the Charter of the United Nations, 
international 
law  and  multilateralism,  Argentina 
opposes  the  use  of  unilateral  coercive  measures,  the 
extraterritorial  application  of  national  laws  and  the 
adoption  of  discriminatory  commercial  practices. 
Consequently,  Argentina  has  traditionally  supported 
the  resolutions  against  the  blockade  and  has  spoken 
to 
its  conviction 
to  constitute  an  obstacle 
out on every occasion that the issue has arisen, both in 
regional forums and other international organizations.
We regret that the laws underpinning the blockade 
continue  to  be  in  force  and  that  their  application 
continues 
the  full 
development of the Cuban people. The adoption of this 
new  resolution  73/8  by  a  large  majority  reiterates  the 
unequivocal  message  of  the  international  community. 
Argentina  reaffirms 
that  dialogue 
without preconditions between the two parties, which 
implies the mutual recognition of both Governments as 
legitimate and equal interlocutors, will make it possible 
to  resolve  all  outstanding  issues  between  the  United 
States and Cuba, including the lifting of the blockade.
Mr.  Arrocha  Ruíz  (Panama)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow me to begin by welcoming Minister for Foreign 
Affairs Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla and by thanking the 
Secretary-General for presenting his report (A/73/85), 
published on 29 August.
Panama once again voted in favour of the resolution 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”, thereby renewing our historic 
support  for  the  lifting  of  restrictive  measures  that 
negatively  impact  Cuba’s  full  economic  and  social 
development.  As  a  country  that  promotes  dialogue 
based  on  common  respect,  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes,  as  well  as  free  trade  and  the  transparent 
practice of international trade, we encourage friendly 
and  cooperative  relations  among  States,  based  on 
international law, sovereign equality, non-interference 
and  non-intervention  and  the  self-determination  of 
peoples as fundamental principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
My  Government  has  followed  with  attention  and 
has expressed its full support for the economic opening 
and modernization of Cuba, as they presage the positive 
impact  and  opportunities  they  are  generating  for  the 
benefit  of  its  population.  We  have  therefore  adopted 
measures  that  strengthen  the  economic,  commercial 
and  tourism  exchange  between  our  countries.  More 
recently,  we  have  promoted  significant  business 
engagement, which was supported by the participation 
of President Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez in the Havana 
International  Fair,  as  a  sign  of  Panama’s  determined 
support to strengthen relations between our countries.
Bearing in mind the global objective that we have 
set with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
22/24 
18-35542
01/11/2018 
A/73/PV.30
and the purpose of leaving no one behind, my country 
and  12  million  Cubans  hope  that  dialogue  without 
preconditions, in full compliance with our obligations 
under the Charter of the United Nations, including the 
application of the principle of non-intervention in the 
internal affairs of another State, is the key to achieving 
well-being and social justice.
As a result of Panama witnessing, on its own soil, 
the historic 2015 rapprochement between Cuba and the 
United  States  —  both  countries  friends  of  the  people 
and the Government of Panama — which led to a new 
stage in the normalization of their relations, my country 
firmly  believes  that  only  the  re-establishment  of  a 
bilateral  dialogue  between  the  two  Governments  can 
contribute  to  reaching  understanding  and  achieving 
cordial  relations,  which  the  international  community 
has been promoting for decades.
I  conclude  by  expressing  Panama’s  support  for 
resolution  73/8,  which  was  introduced  and  adopted 
today,  in  favour  of  Cuba.  I  reaffirm  the  steadfast 
and  determined  support  of  my  country  to  contribute 
constructively to overcoming the impasse that distances 
two brotherly countries from our region.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Peru 
voted in favour of resolution 73/8 and against the draft 
amendments  to  the  text  because  we  felt  that  it  was 
important  to  maintain  the  integrity  of  the  resolution 
that  was  introduced  by  the  Cuban  delegation,  which 
is identical in scope to the resolution that the General 
Assembly  has  consistently  adopted  since  1992  and  in 
which we call for an end to the economic, commercial 
and financial blockade imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba — a blockade that Peru opposes. 
However,  want  to  be  clear  that  we  did  so  without 
prejudice to our traditional and unconditional respect 
for  and  promotion  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms,  as  stated  in  the  Constitution  of  Peru,  in 
addition to being a priority of our foreign policy.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote after the voting.
Before  giving  the  floor  to  the  speaker  in  the 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply,  I  should  like  to  remind 
members that statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention 
and to five minutes for the second, and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.
The  United  States  has 
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  United 
States  leaves  my  delegation  with  no  choice  but  to 
exercise  its  right  of  reply.  We  deeply  regret  that  this 
forum  has  been  used  as  an  opportunity  to  make 
reference to my country with fallacies that confirm the 
pathological  tendency  of  the  United  States  to  distort 
reality  when  it  comes  to  States  that  do  not  submit  to 
or  follow  its  contradictory  policies.  We  reject  such 
desperate efforts to take advantage of this international 
forum and manipulate any issue for political purposes.
flagrantly  violated 
international  law,  including  by  its  withdrawal  from 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action — the Iranian 
nuclear deal. Moreover, it disregards Security Council 
resolution  2231  (2015),  which  was  unanimously 
adopted, including by the United States, grossly violates 
human  rights,  demonstrates  lunatic  unilateralism  and 
exercises a warmongering policy. All of that is of great 
concern and a threat to both regional and international 
peace  and  security.  The  United  States  has  no  moral 
authority to impose its views on my country through its 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade,  under 
which the Government of the United States is violating 
the human rights of more than 80 million Iranians.
the  contradictory  and 
The  United  States  is  therefore  in  no  position  to 
lecture or impose its will on anyone. We have strongly 
condemned 
interventionist 
policy  of  that  country,  in  particular  its  devastating 
intervention  in  the  Middle  East.  It  is  unfortunate 
that its abuse of the United Nations, in particular the 
General Assembly, has become a pathological tendency 
and prevailing tradition to advance its political ends.
It  is  worth  noting  that  credible  United  Nation 
treaty  bodies  have  expressed  deep  concerns  in  their 
concluding  observations  about  discrimination  against 
racial,  ethnic  and  national  minorities,  especially 
Latino  and  African-American  persons,  in  the  United 
States.  Alongside  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
international  community,  which  opposed  or  did  not 
consciously support similar moves in the past, we are 
firmly convinced that such an ill-intended practice has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  humanitarian  cause  or  human 
rights  and  will  harm  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations and its relevant mechanisms.
We expect that the United States officials present 
here  will  take  the  opportunity  to  sincerely  apologize 
for their unilateral and arrogant, as well as unlawful, 
18-35542
23/24
A/73/PV.30 
01/11/2018
acts that violate human rights in Cuba, my country and 
other  States  on  which  they  have  imposed  sanctions, 
which they have invaded or in which they have somehow 
intervened.  American  disregard  of  international  law 
and norms, as well as its disregard for its commitments, 
are arousing indignation and resentment worldwide.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I  take  it 
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 43?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
24/24 
18-35542
