United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
40th plenary meeting
Monday, 26 November 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.40
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hoshino 
(Japan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Economic Cooperation Organization
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 
Agenda item 128 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/328)
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
(c) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Asian-African Legal Consultative 
Organization
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States 
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Latin American Caribbean Economic 
System 
(f) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of American States 
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe 
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the International Organization of la 
Francophonie
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Preparatory Commission for the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
Organization
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/111)
(l) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe;
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Community of Central African 
States
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/97)
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
Organization
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Caribbean Community 
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-40102 (E)
*1840102*

A/73/PV.40 
26/11/2018
(r) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Community of Portuguese-speaking 
Countries
(s) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
(t) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Collective Security Treaty Organization
Draft resolution (A/73/L.24)
(u) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Central European Initiative
(v) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Democracy and Economic 
Development — GUAM
(w) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Commonwealth of Independent States
(x) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Organization for Migration
(y) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Criminal Police Organization 
(INTERPOL)
(z) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea
The Acting President: Before giving the floor for 
explanations of vote or position after adoption, may I 
remind  delegations  that  such  explanations  are  limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Simcock  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  believes  that  INTERPOL  serves  an 
important  role  in  combating  crime  and  encouraging 
international  cooperation  in  crime  prevention  and 
criminal justice matters. 
the  United  Nations  and 
The United States supports the intent of resolution 
73/11,  which  is  to  ensure  the  continued  coordination 
between 
INTERPOL. 
However, we believe that some of the language in the 
resolution  might  be  misconstrued.  In  order  to  avoid 
such a misunderstanding, we would like to clarify our 
understanding  of  paragraph  2.  In  particular,  we  want 
to clarify that the term “in this context” with respect 
to  information-sharing  refers  broadly  to  counter-
terrorism  efforts.  We  stress  that  information-sharing 
for  terrorist-screening  purposes,  which  increases  the 
chances of positive identification of terrorists and their 
affiliates,  as  well  as  making  full  use  of  INTERPOL 
capabilities in this regard, should not be limited solely 
to strengthening international efforts aimed at ensuring 
that refugee status is not abused by terrorists, but rather 
should be used in all screening of travellers.
We also note our understanding that refugee status 
is  not  abused  when  it  is  granted  in  accordance  with 
States obligations under international law. We hope that 
these clarifications are helpful to other Member States 
in consideration of resolution 73/11. 
Furthermore,  we  want  to  clarify  our  support  for 
the  issuance  of  INTERPOL  notices.  These  notices 
should  adhere  to  law-enforcement  and  international 
human rights standards, and we denounce all efforts by 
Member States to use these measures to target religious 
and  political  dissidents,  including  China’s  misuse  of 
INTERPOL notices to target Uighurs.
responsibility 
for  positions  of 
Finally,  we  want  to  reiterate  our  recognition  of 
INTERPOL as an apolitical international organization 
that  respects  the  sovereignty  of  Member  States,  but 
stress  the  importance  of  the  organization  choosing 
individuals 
from 
countries  that  demonstrate  a  clear  commitment  to 
transparency and the rule of law. We remain concerned 
about 
the  disappearance  and  detention  of  Meng 
Hongwei  and  its  implications  for  a  key  international 
law-enforcement  agency.  Going  forward,  we  urge 
Member States to continue to elect and support leaders 
in  key  positions  within  the  organization  who  will 
promote, not undermine, the values and practices that 
make INTERPOL such a vital international body.
Mr.  Kashaev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  make  this  statement  in  explanation  of 
position after the adoption of resolution 73/15, entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Council of Europe” (see A/73/PV.39).
The  Russian  Federation  supports  resolution  73/15 
and, in general, is in favour of developing cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe. 
We  believe  that  the  resolution  will  give  new  impetus 
to  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  on  a 
wide  range  of  matters.  One  aim  of  this  cooperation 
is  preventing  violence  against  women,  as  declared  in 
the  Council  of  Europe’s  Istanbul  Convention.  Russia 
stands  ready  to  continue  to  develop  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  on 
this  important  matter.  At  the  same  time,  the  Istanbul 
Convention itself contains provisions that run counter 
2/5 
18-40102
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.40
to  Russian  legislation,  Russia’s  family-policy  concept 
document, and principled approaches to the protection 
and promotion of traditional family values.
Moreover, with respect to the Council of Europe’s 
platform for the protection of journalists, we note that 
it was created in the absence of consensus and reflects 
the  opinion  of  a  narrow  group  of  non-governmental 
organizations. The platform itself is not a mechanism 
for  monitoring  treaty  obligations  in  the  framework 
of  the  Council  of  Europe.  Therefore,  we  believe  it 
premature to refer to the experience of the functioning 
of the structure as positive.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of position.
The representative of the Syrian Arab Republic has 
asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I remind 
him that statements in the exercise of the right of reply 
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 
to five minutes for the second intervention and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Al-Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My country’s delegation would like to exercise 
its  right  of  reply  to  address  the  misconceptions  and 
unfounded  accusations  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
League of Arab States at this morning’s plenary under 
agenda item 128 (d), entitled “Cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States”  (see 
A/73/PV.39).
At the outset, my delegation states that it will never 
stoop  to  the  level  of  the  Arab  League  observer,  who 
was aggressive and unprofessional when he spoke about 
Syria,  one  of  the  founding  members  of  the  League. 
Syria  will  always  be  in  favour  of  Arab  cooperation. 
In  that  context,  we  officially  underscore  that,  during 
today’s afternoon break, we contacted a large number 
of  representatives  of  Arab  States,  who  categorically 
confirmed  to  us  that  the  observer’s  attacks  and 
unfounded accusations against the Government of the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  were  not  part  of  the  original 
statement, which was supposed to reflect the position 
of the Arab League on the item under discussion. They 
assured  us  that  the  Arab  League  observer  had  gone 
beyond the bounds of his mandate, thereby confirming 
our assertion this morning that the Governments of one 
or  two  States  members  of  that  regional  organization 
have  hijacked  and  monopolized  the  decisions  and 
positions of the Arab League.
I  would  like  now  to  address  the  Charter  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  which  is  the  organization’s 
founding law, and the minutes of its official meetings. 
The  observer  of  the  Arab  League,  who  is  a  diplomat 
and  a 
former  professional  ambassador,  claimed 
before the Assembly this morning that the decision to 
suspend  Syria’s  membership  in  the  League  was  legal 
and unanimous. I call on that professional diplomat to 
review the minutes of the 12 November 2011 meeting 
of  the  Foreign  Ministers  of  the  League.  According 
to  the  record  of  that  meeting,  three  member  States 
expressed their opposition and reservations with regard 
to  the  decision  to  suspend  Syria’s  membership  of  the 
League. Furthermore, that professional diplomat stated 
that the decision to suspend Syria’s membership in the 
League  was  legal  even  though  he  is  fully  aware  that 
the  League’s  Charter  explicitly  states  that  a  member 
can be suspended only at a summit meeting and by the 
unanimous decision of all member States. I do not wish 
to dwell on the details, and we do not have a problem 
with the League as an organization, but we will never 
remain silent when someone attempts to misrepresent 
or distort the truth.
I  would  ask  the  observer  and  the  members  of  the 
Assembly  to  take  a  look  at  the  record  of  the  meeting 
which I have referred to so that they may verify the truth 
of what I am saying. On 12 November 2011, the Chair 
of the Arab League Council, who was then the Prime 
Minister of Qatar, submitted a draft decision to suspend 
Syria’s membership. The Permanent Representative of 
the Syrian Arab Republic asked the Secretary-General 
of  the  League  to  let  the  Council  members  read  the 
advisory  opinion  issued  by  the  organization’s  Office 
of  Legal  Affairs  on  the  question  of  suspension  of 
membership,  which  explicitly  stated  that  the  decision 
to suspend a League member is similar to a decision to 
expel a League member. Such a decision should be taken 
by  member  States  at  a  summit  meeting  and  adopted 
unanimously. As a founding member of the League of 
Arab States, we respect the stature and history of the 
organization. For that reason, I will not delve into the 
pressures to which the Secretary-General of the League 
was  subjected  in  order  to  keep  that  advisory  opinion 
from being made public to the member States.
The Arab League observer told the Assembly today 
that the League did not impose any unilateral coercive 
economic measures against the Syrian people. I believe 
that  the  untruth  of  that  statement  will  be  ascertained 
by reference to decision No. 7442, adopted by the Arab 
18-40102
3/5
A/73/PV.40 
26/11/2018
League  in  November  2011,  which  imposed  a  number 
of  unilateral  coercive  economic  measures  against 
Syria, including the suspension of transactions with the 
Central Bank of Syria; the suspension of governmental 
trade  exchanges  with  the  Syrian  Government;  the 
freezing  of  Syrian  Government  financial  assets;  the 
suspension  of  financial  transactions  with  the  Syrian 
Government;  the  suspension  of  all  transactions  with 
the  Commercial  Bank  of  Syria;  the  suspension  of  all 
funding  by  Arab  central  banks  to  trade  exchanges 
involving the Commercial Bank of Syria; a request to 
Arab  central  banks  to  monitor  financial  transactions 
and commercial credits; the suspension of all funding 
by  Arab  States  for  projects  on  Syrian  territories; 
a  request  to  all  Arab  airlines  to  stop  their  flights 
to  and  from  Syria;  and  —  the  following  is  a  strange 
measure  —  the  suspension  of  all  the  broadcasting  of 
Syrian  Government  and  private  channels  through 
Arab satellites.
I would like to ask the Arab League observer the 
following  question.  If  the  foregoing  measures  do  not 
amount  to  an  economic  embargo  against  the  Syrian 
people, how does he comprehend the unilateral coercive 
economic  measures  that  the  United  Nations  rejects, 
condemns and calls for an end to?
The Acting President: I request the representative 
of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  to  kindly  wrap  up  his 
statement, as 10 minutes have elapsed.
Mr.  Al-Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  In  conclusion,  we  in  Syria  continue  to 
believe  that  the  League  of  Arab  States  can  regain  its 
role  and  credibility.  However,  what  we  heard  today 
from the League Observer confirms what we said this 
morning, namely, that there is a movement afoot within 
the  organization  to  co-opt  its  decisions  and  stances 
and to oppose and silence the majority of the League 
membership, which supports in deeds and not only in 
words, the efforts that the Syrian Government is making 
to eliminate terrorism and move forward with a Syrian-
led  political  process  free  of  any  foreign  interference, 
while  ensuring  the  return  of  refugees  and  internally 
displaced persons, reconstruction and recovery.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-items (k), (l), (o), (u), (v), (w) and 
(y) of agenda item 128?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  appeal 
to  those  Member  States  intending  to  submit  draft 
resolutions on the remaining sub-items to do so as soon 
as possible.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of the item and the remaining 
sub-items.
Agenda item 133 (continued)
Impact of rapid technological change on the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals
Draft resolution (A/73/L.20)
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Mexico to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.20.
Mr. Gómez Camacho (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
It is an honour for Mexico to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.20, on the impact of rapid technological change 
on  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) and targets.
Mexico is convinced that the General Assembly is 
the ideal space to raise awareness among States and in 
our societies about the paradigm shift of technological 
progress.  This  year  we  have  witnessed  the  profound 
multidimensional effects of rapid technological change, 
which affect all countries in the economic, social and 
environmental  spheres.  New  technologies  can  change 
the  destiny  of  our  nations  and  communities  and  are 
potential tools for States and agencies of the system to 
implement public policies to achieve the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
The draft resolution before us seeks to strengthen 
the  United  Nations  architecture  with  regard  to  rapid 
technological change and the SDGs and their 169 targets. 
It calls for coordination, which currently does not exist, 
between the Technology Facilitation Mechanism and its 
three components and the Commission on Science and 
Technology  for  Development.  Artificial  intelligence 
is mentioned as a key element among the technologies 
that  can  help  meet  the  2030  Agenda.  We  call  for  the 
issue of technological change to be included as a topic 
in  the  next  follow-up  cycle  of  the  implementation  of 
the Agenda and in the work of the high-level political 
forum and for its discussion in the regular agenda of the 
Assembly to be ensured.
4/5 
18-40102
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.40
We  are  working  to  forge  stronger  links  and 
coordination within the United Nations system to take 
advantage  of  the  opportunities  presented  by  rapid 
technological  change.  The  emergence  of  these  new 
technologies, in particular that of artificial intelligence, 
represents an evolutionary and existential challenge for 
humankind.  The  debate  must  be  broad  and  translated 
into positive elements for our societies.
As the Foreign Minister of Mexico pointed out in 
the General Assembly (see A/73/PV.22), the future of 
humankind,  in  the  light  of  these  new  technologies,  is 
neither predestined nor unchangeable. It depends on the 
actions and decisions that we take together.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will 
now  take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.20, 
entitled  “Impact  of  rapid  technological  change  on  the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and targets”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/73/L.20,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors of: Andorra, Colombia, France, Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg,  Panama,  South  Africa,  Switzerland  and 
the United Kingdom.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.20?
resolution  A/73/L.20  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/17).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 133?
adopted 
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m.
18-40102
5/5
