United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
38th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 21 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 121
Commemoration of the abolition of slavery and the 
transatlantic slave trade
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/88)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Slavery  and 
the transatlantic slave trade between the sixteenth and 
nineteenth centuries forced millions of people in Africa 
to leave their homes, villages and lands to be subjected 
to  an  institutionalized  exploitation  that  was  based  on 
amassing  resources.  Loss  of  life  and  human  dignity 
was the price paid for that act. The impacts of that great 
tragedy  endure  to  this  day.  The  General  Assembly 
should continue to contribute to a better understanding 
of  the  causes  and  consequences  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade in order to prevent any forms 
of  subjugation  or  discrimination  from  being  repeated 
in our history.
The  designation  of  25  March  as  the  International 
Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the 
Transatlantic Slave Trade has contributed to honouring 
the memory of the victims of slavery and to warning of the 
dangers of racism. Unfortunately, racial discrimination 
is not a thing of the past. We must maximize our efforts 
against racism and all related forms of discrimination 
and  intolerance.  We  must  preserve  and  increase 
educational  and  cultural  programmes,  and  strengthen 
the initiatives to raise awareness about slavery and the 
transatlantic  slave  trade  carried  out  in  the  past  three 
years by the United Nations system, Member States and 
civil society. I would like to highlight that the General 
Assembly’s designation of the decade 2015-2024 as the 
International  Decade  for  People  of  African  Descent 
has  contributed  to  promoting  greater  knowledge  of 
the heritage and culture of people of African descent 
and  raising  awareness  of  their  contributions  to  the 
development of societies.
Four  centuries  of  slavery  have  permanently 
impacted the history of humankind. We must recognize 
that part of history and never repeat it. And we must 
promote reconciliation. I commend the States that have 
contributed  to  the  trust  fund  for  the  Ark  of  Return, 
the  beautiful  permanent  memorial  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters that honours the victims of slavery. One 
of the best ways to honour the victims of slavery is to 
recognize the complex realities that their descendants 
face.  Through  their  work  and  cultural  diversity,  they 
have enriched the regions in which they live. We must 
preserve that cultural wealth while also combating the 
unjust  social  stratifications  that  were  established  in 
the  colonial  era  and  which  continue  to  exist  in  many 
countries.  Let  us  honour  the  victims  of  slavery  by 
achieving inclusive societies that are more just and by 
combating and eradicating poverty and inequality.
The Ark of Return reminds us of the past, but also 
of  the  present.  Today,  more  than  40  million  people 
in  the  world  are  victims  of  modern  forms  of  slavery. 
Sustainable Development Goal 8.7 of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  calls  on  States  to  take 
immediate and effective measures to end modern slavery. 
There is no doubt that in December 2018 the best way 
to celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the Universal 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-39311 (E)
*1839311*

A/73/PV.38 
21/11/2018
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  would  be  to  renew  our 
commitments  to  eradicating  slavery  in  all  its  forms, 
rejecting  racism  and  racial  prejudice,  and  continuing 
to work to teach future generations about the dangers 
of tolerating exploitation and inequalities. Let us once 
and for all overcome discrimination and inequality, the 
remnants of the darkest age of humankind, and move 
towards  implementing  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. That can be our greatest tribute to the past and 
present victims of slavery, discrimination and exclusion.
Ms.  Carey  (Bahamas):  I  have  the  honour  of 
delivering, on behalf of the 14 States members of the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM), this statement on 
agenda item 121, regarding the report of the Secretary-
General on the programme of educational outreach on 
the transatlantic slave trade and slavery (A/73/88).
The 
triangular  slave 
trade  between  Africa, 
Europe  and  the  Americas  lasted  for  more  than  400 
years. During that period, it is estimated that between 
15  to  18  million  men,  women  and  children  were  the 
victims of the transatlantic slave trade. That is one of 
the darkest chapters of human history. Human beings 
were reduced to commodities and exploited for profit 
as a means to enrich and maintain the status quo of the 
colonial entities.
forcibly 
to  slavery  and 
In this twenty-first century, as we witness a new 
dawn  of  civilization,  it  is  imperative  that  the  human 
race  never  forget  that  evil,  which  once  scourged  our 
world. That is why the Caribbean Community, a region 
largely  populated  by  descendants  of  the  Africans 
condemned 
transported 
across  the  Atlantic  Ocean  by  means  of  the  abhorrent 
transatlantic  slave  trade,  strongly  supports  global, 
regional and local initiatives to highlight the lessons of 
the transatlantic slave trade. We also support the need 
to  continue  to  educate  and  raise  awareness  about  the 
dangers  of  racism  and  prejudice,  and  to  promote  the 
legacy and contributions of people of African descent, 
as  well  as  their  triumphs  and  struggles  for  freedom 
and equality.
The members of the Caribbean Community, with 
the support of the African Union, were at the forefront 
of efforts to erect the Ark of Return at United Nations 
Headquarters.  The  permanent  memorial  to  honour 
the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade was unveiled on 25 March 2015, the day that is 
observed  as  the  International  Day  of  Remembrance 
of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave 
Trade.  The  placement  of  the  memorial  at  United 
Nations Headquarters is a significant symbol of what 
the United Nations represents, namely, the promotion 
and preservation of the dignity and worth of all human 
beings — principles that are enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations.
The  Ark  of  Return  honours  the  memories  of  the 
men,  women  and  children  who  were  the  victims  of 
what  is  now  generally  accepted  as  a  crime  against 
humanity.  The  permanent  memorial  also  serves  as 
an  acknowledgement  of  the  crimes  and  atrocities 
perpetrated  over  the  course  of  four  centuries,  during 
which  millions  of  Africans  were  violently  removed 
from their homelands, ruthlessly abused and robbed of 
their dignity.
The  world  has  learned  that  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade  was  the  largest  forced  migration  event  in 
history. The legacy lives on today in the families and 
countries that were affected. The permanent memorial 
also reminds the world of the bravery of those slaves, 
abolitionists and unsung heroes who managed to rise 
up  against  an  oppressive  system  and  put  an  end  to 
that  odious  practice.  It  is  intended  that  the  memorial 
continue  to  serve  as  a  motivating  force  to  galvanize 
our individual and collective resolve to stamp out the 
contemporary  manifestations  of  modern-day  slavery, 
child labour and human trafficking.
In that connection, we applaud the creation of the 
Remember Slavery website within the United Nations 
network,  which  serves  as  a  permanent  reservoir  of 
data  on  commemorative  activities,  United  Nations 
initiatives and literature on the ways in which enslaved 
Africans  and 
influenced  and 
continue  to  shape  every  sphere  of  society  around  the 
world.  CARICOM  also  notes  with  appreciation  the 
weekly tours and briefings at the Ark of Return, which 
are intended to provide visitors to the United Nations 
with an understanding of those tragic occurrences.
their  descendants 
CARICOM  is  also  appreciative  of  the  launch 
of  the  outreach  programme  to  mobilize  educational 
institutions,  civil  society  and  other  organizations  to 
inculcate in future generations an understanding of the 
causes,  consequences  and  lessons  of  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade  and  communicate  the  dangers  of  racism 
and prejudice.
CARICOM 
the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  on  the  programme  of  educational  outreach 
on  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and  slavery,  which 
thanks 
2/8 
18-39311
21/11/2018 
A/73/PV.38
itemizes  the  plethora  of  ongoing  initiatives  on  this 
topic, including this year’s exhibit at the United Nations 
entitled “A Legacy of Black Achievement”. CARICOM 
also  commends  the  United  Nations  Department  of 
Information  and  Communications  for  its  involvement 
in 
that  programme.  The  Caribbean 
Community  also  acknowledges  the  extensive  support 
rendered by the United Nations Educational Scientific 
and  Cultural  Organization  towards  the  establishment 
of an educational outreach programme and the creation 
of the Ark of Return.
facilitating 
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states 
that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity 
and rights. It shatters false notions of superiority and 
inferiority. Our memorial reminds the world never to 
forget and to say it loud. The world must never forget, 
so that that unspeakable evil is never again perpetuated 
on  societies.  We  must  ensure  that  people’s  prospects 
and achievements are not marked by the colour of their 
skin or ethnic background.
Mr.  Sparber  (Liechtenstein):  Today’s  debate 
provides an important opportunity to pay tribute to the 
victims of one of the worst chapters in human history, 
but also to reflect on the challenges that remain with 
regard to slavery in our own times.
in 
the  most  appalling  and 
Spanning  nearly  four  centuries,  over  15  million 
men,  women  and  children  were  victims  of 
the 
transatlantic  slave  trade.  The  victims  were  forcibly 
removed from their families and homes and transferred 
overseas 
inhumane 
conditions.  Those  who  survived  the  brutal  journey 
were  subjected  to  forced  labour  and  abuse  and  were 
thereby  permanently  deprived  of  their  most  basic 
human  rights.  We  must  never  forget  our  common 
commitment  to  ensuring  the  absolute  prohibition  of 
slavery in all its forms, as enshrined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
Adopted  70  years  ago,  the  Universal  Declaration 
of Human Rights has brought about significant change 
in the enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms 
around  the  world.  As  to  the  absolute  prohibition  of 
slavery,  however,  we  are  perhaps  furthest  away  from 
its  full  implementation.  Article  4  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  is  unequivocal  in  its 
proclamation that “No one shall be held in slavery or 
servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited 
in all their forms.”
Nevertheless, slavery persists. It did not disappear 
with  the  end  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  in  the 
1800s;  in  fact,  there  are  more  slaves  today  than  at 
the  height  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  Today,  an 
estimated  40  million  people  live  in  conditions  that 
qualify  as  modern  slavery  —  more  people  than  ever 
before.  Despite  the  fact  that  slavery  is  outlawed 
universally,  human  trafficking  and  enslavement  are 
crimes committed on a large scale and with widespread 
impunity. Every country is affected by modern slavery 
in  very  different  forms.  An  estimated  $150  billion 
are  generated  through  slavery  practices  every  year. 
Modern slavery and human trafficking are not only one 
of the biggest human rights scandals of our time, they 
are also among the most lucrative business models of 
organized crime.
In  the  light  of  that,  Liechtenstein  is  currently 
focusing  its  fight  against  modern  slavery  on  two 
particular aspects. First, we are trying to address the 
business  side  of  modern  slavery.  Given  that  modern 
slavery  is  among  the  most  profitable  illegal  business 
models,  we  can  make  use  of  tools  that  have  proven 
effective  in  other  areas  to  disrupt  financial  flows  by 
using  relevant  data  for  criminal  prosecutions  —  in 
short, to follow the money. Leveraging the crucial role 
played by the private sector is key.
The  financial  sector,  in  particular,  can  help  to 
tackle  modern  slavery  in  the  areas  of  lending  and 
investment, compliance, sustainability and innovation. 
This is why, together with our partners, Australia and 
the  United  Nations  University,  we  have  launched  a 
Financial Sector Commission on Modern Slavery and 
Human  Trafficking,  also  known  as  the  Liechtenstein 
initiative.  It  brings  together  actors  from  retail  banks, 
hedge funds, global regulators, institutional investors 
and  survivors,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  and 
the  anti-slavery  movement.  The  Financial  Sector 
Commission is working to develop actionable measures 
that  the  global  financial  sector  can  build  on  in  order 
to  tackle  modern  slavery  and  human  trafficking. 
The  Commission  focused  its  first  meeting  this  past 
September  on  financial-sector  compliance.  The  next 
meeting  of  the  Commission  will  address  the  role  of 
responsible lending and investment in tackling modern 
slavery and human trafficking.
Secondly,  we  are  working 
the 
enormous  impunity  gap.  As  national  judiciaries  have 
systematically  failed  to  prosecute  grave  cases  of 
modern slavery and human trafficking, there is a clear 
to  address 
18-39311
3/8
A/73/PV.38 
21/11/2018
need to make use of international justice, in particular 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  The  Rome 
Statute, the founding treaty of the ICC, has jurisdiction 
over enslavement, both as a war crime and as a crime 
against  humanity.  Given  the  universal  nature  of  the 
phenomenon of modern slavery, the Court could play a 
dual role by creating incentives for States to investigate 
and  prosecute  at  the  national  level,  and,  where  that 
fails,  carrying  out  the  investigation  and  prosecution 
itself where the impunity gap persists. We will continue 
exploring such options together with the Court.
Modern-day slavery is a complex phenomenon that 
affects all of us and should leave no one indifferent. As 
individuals, as diplomats and as consumers, we all have 
an opportunity to contribute to the eradication of this 
major human rights crisis of our time. That, we believe, 
is the best contribution we can make to commemorating 
this Day of Remembrance in a meaningful way.
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
in 
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Camejo 
in 
Spanish): Cuba aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by the representative of the Bahamas on behalf of the 
Caribbean Community.
Cuba  participated 
the  negotiations  and 
supported resolutions 61/19 and 70/7, commemorating 
the  bicentennial  of  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic 
slave 
this  International 
Day  of  Remembrance  and  established  a  permanent 
memorial. My country attaches particular importance 
to the annual commemoration of the International Day 
of  Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of  Slavery  and  the 
Transatlantic  Slave  Trade,  a  matter  that  is  especially 
dear to the hearts of the Cuban people.
trade,  which  designated 
It  would  be  an  unforgivable  historical  error  to 
ignore  or  pretend  to  forget  that  past.  By  introducing 
the slave trade into the western hemisphere, the former 
colonial  Powers  committed  an  unjustifiable  crime 
against  humanity.  The  major  beneficiaries  of  the 
conquest and colonization and of slavery and the slave 
trade  must  assume  their  responsibility  and  provide 
compensation for the horrendous crimes committed.
The Secretary-General’s report (A/73/88) leads us 
to reflect on the importance of fulfilling the precepts 
set  forth  in  the  Durban  Declaration,  particularly 
paragraphs 98 to 102, as well as the activities included 
in  its  Programme  of  Action,  concerning  the  teaching 
and  understanding  of  the  historical  truth  about  the 
tragedy of slavery.
Approximately  1.3  million  Africans  arrived  in 
Cuba  as  slaves.  They  and  their  descendants  were 
protagonists in the various stages of our struggles for 
our  ultimate  liberation.  The  people  of  Cuba  are  very 
proud of their African roots. From Africa, we inherited 
the combative spirit, sensibility, joy, strength in the face 
of adversity and love of freedom that are characteristic 
of the Cuban people. No other people of the world have 
contributed as much to forge the Cuban nation as the 
African people.
Mr. Arrocha Ruiz (Panama), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
On  that  basis,  the  Cuban  State,  with  the  active 
support and participation of civil society, has developed 
a broad educational and cultural promotion programme 
that covers the entire country at all levels — from the 
centre out to the communities. Those programmes seek 
the broadest possible dissemination and understanding 
of  an  issue  that  is  part  of  our  history,  and  aim  to 
maintain and consolidate our African cultural roots.
We  are  pleased  that  the  report  reflects  the 
realization,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
and  at  the  national  level,  of  a  broad  programme  of 
activities  throughout  the  period  under  consideration, 
with  the  active  participation  of  many  countries, 
including  Cuba.  Nevertheless,  it  is  not  enough.  We 
need  greater  political  will,  because  slavery  is  not 
merely a historical phenomenon. Well into the twenty-
first century, almost 40 million people are now subject 
to similar conditions. We must urgently press ahead to 
reach Goal 8.7 of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
which will be unattainable if we do not intensify efforts 
to eliminate modern slavery. The rightful requests for 
compensation by Caribbean Community member States 
must  be  addressed.  Developing  countries  in  general, 
and  African  developing  countries  in  particular,  must 
receive  the  special  and  differentiated  treatment  that 
they require in their international economic relations.
There is a great deal of wealth in today’s world that 
is the product of the shameful and disgraceful practices 
of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade.  The  international 
community  is  morally  obligated  to  contribute  to 
reparations  for  the  crimes  committed  and  to  ensure, 
through  education  campaigns  for  current  and  future 
generations,  that  crimes  of  that  nature  are  never 
committed again.
Mr.  Kai-Kai  (Sierra  Leone):  My  delegation 
thanks  the  President  for  convening  this  meeting 
4/8 
18-39311
21/11/2018 
A/73/PV.38
to  commemorate  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade.
Allow me also to thank the Secretary-General for 
his 4 June report, contained in document A/73/88, on the 
programme of educational outreach on the transatlantic 
slave trade and slavery. I also commend the Department 
of  Public  Information,  interested  Member  States, 
UNESCO  and  civil  society  for  the  three  consecutive 
years of hosting productive commemorative events and 
public  awareness  engagements,  thereby  ushering  in  a 
period of resurgence in remembering the transatlantic 
slave trade and slavery.
for 
Information 
Sierra Leone welcomes the report and commends 
the  Department  of  Public 
the 
organization of the three commemorative ceremonies 
for  the  International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the 
Victims  of  Slavery  and  the  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade 
since  2015  on  the  themes  of  the  heritage  and  culture 
of the African diaspora, the legacy and contributions 
of  people  of  African  descent,  and  the  triumphs  and 
struggles for freedom and equality, respectively.
My  delegation  continues  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
community  of  interested  States,  States  members  of 
the  Caribbean  Community,  the  African  Union  and 
generous contributors to the Memorial Trust Fund for 
their  primary  and  pivotal  role  in  the  erection  of  the
Ark  of  Return  at  its  prominent  site  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters — a permanent memorial honouring the 
dehumanized and almost forgotten victims of slavery 
and the transatlantic slave trade.
At  a  time  when  the  egregious  offshoots  of  the 
slave  trade  —  institutional  racism,  discrimination 
and  xenophobia  —  are  resurfacing  and  are  often 
camouflaged with the euphemism of nationalism, the 
importance  for  States  to  reaffirm  and  implement  the 
commitments  espoused  in  the  Durban  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  on  countering  the  legacy 
of  slavery  and  contributing  to  the  restoration  of  the 
dignity  of  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade 
cannot be overemphasized.
That collective commitment must be meaningful. 
In  recalling  resolution  68/237  of  23  December  2013, 
proclaiming 
the  International  Decade  for  People 
of  African  Descent,  Sierra  Leone  strongly  affirms 
the  imperative  to  recognize  the  contributions  of 
enslaved people and their descendants, especially the 
contributions made to the societies that forced them into 
bondage. It is but fitting, therefore, to note the alignment 
of  the  themes  and  activities  of  the  “Remembering 
Slavery:  Recognition,  Justice  and  Development”
exhibition  with  those  of  the  International  Decade  for 
People  of  African  Descent.  In  our  view,  that  affords 
us  an  opportunity  to  showcase  the  contributions  and 
recognize the representative and distinct human rights 
of  the  estimated  200  million  people  identifying  with 
that group as we work to combat racism and prejudice.
Sierra  Leone  is  deeply  committed  to  increasing 
educational  outreach  on  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave trade, whether at the United Nations or at home. 
As  reported  by  the  Secretary-General  on  24  March 
2016, our delegation, in observance of the International 
Day  of  Remembrance  and  with  the  co-sponsorship 
of  the  Permanent  Mission  of  Jamaica  to  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Monuments  and  Relics  Commission 
in Sierra Leone, organized a panel discussion entitled 
“The  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade:  Constructing  New 
Amistad,  Bunce  Island,  Gullah,  Maroon  and  Nova 
Scotia Bridges”.
In  the  side  event,  held  here  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters, we were reminded by Ms. Sylviane A. 
Diouf of Sierra Leone’s unique position in the horrific 
tragedy. Sierra Leone was at the confluence of several 
migratory  movements.  It  was  a  place  of  departure, 
a  place  of  return,  a  place  of  exile  and  a  place  of 
refuge — the province of freedom. We were reminded 
of  the  commercial,  industrial-scale  operations  at 
Bunce Island, a place that still bears the hallmarks of 
the tragedy, even in its present state of ruin. We were 
reminded  of  how  400,000  people  were  taken  from 
present-day  Sierra  Leone  for  their  skills  in  growing 
rice. Indeed, we were reminded of the Amistad and the 
belief in the idea and ideals of freedom long held by the 
captured slaves led by Sengbe Pieh, long before those 
ideas  and  ideals  were  codified  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
As  we  are  reminded  of  the  impact  of  the  slave 
trade,  we  must  be  mindful  of  the  risk  of  the  present 
generation forgetting the past and depriving the future 
of the knowledge of the slave-trade horror, so that we 
can all say: “Never again!” My delegation joins the call 
for following through on our resolve to design curricula 
for institutions of learning — from primary schools to 
higher education institutions — incorporating accounts 
on the transatlantic slave trade and slavery into school 
programmes in order to educate and inculcate present 
and  future  generations  with  an  understanding  of  the 
lessons, history and consequences of the tragedy.
18-39311
5/8
A/73/PV.38 
21/11/2018
The present challenges, in the form of institutional 
racism,  discrimination  and  prejudice,  can  be  well 
understood  and  addressed  only  within  the  context 
of  the  history  of  the  slave  trade.  In  Sierra  Leone,  as 
the  Government  declares  free  quality  education  for 
all  pupils  in  Government  and  Government-assisted 
schools, the educational outreach drive will, for the first 
time,  be  extended  to  children  and  indirectly  to  their 
parents,  who  were  previously  denied  the  opportunity 
to learn about the lessons, history and consequences of 
slavery in formal institutions.
With  respect  to  raising  public  awareness  about 
commemorative  activities  on  slavery  and  the  slave 
trade  and  the  permanent  memorial,  my  delegation 
notes  the  invaluable  work  carried  out  by  United 
Nations information centres. However, we believe that 
more  needs  to  be  done.  For  example,  the  Secretary-
General’s report indicates that the information centre 
based in Accra, which services Sierra Leone, did not 
hold any outreach activity in Sierra Leone during the 
reporting  period.  It  is  hoped  that  the  message  of  the 
Ark  Of  Return,  captured  in  its  triangular  elements 
entitled  “Acknowledge  the  tragedy”,  “Consider  the 
legacy” and “Lest we forget”, will be taken to the place 
of return — Sierra Leone.
Finally, it is our honest belief that the true hidden 
value  of  the  commemoration  events  lies  not  only  in 
honouring the lives lost or celebrating the resilience of 
the descendants, but also in building bridges between 
people of African descent and Africa. Time and again, 
we have witnessed and observed the unbridled joy when 
people  of  African  descent  trace  and  rediscover  their 
lost  homes  in  Africa.  Those  journeys  of  rediscovery 
and  the  contributions  of  people  of  African  descent 
must be celebrated.
That  is  why  Sierra  Leone  applauds  initiatives 
like  the  Most  Influential  People  of  African  Descent 
award, which brought to New York and United Nations 
Headquarters  a  global  pool  of  influential  people  of 
African  descent  under  40,  including  the  First  Lady 
of  Sierra  Leone,  Madame  Fatima  Maada  Bio,  who 
served  as  valedictorian,  to  celebrate  their  work  and 
achievements  and  to  encourage  them  to  support  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
That event was held in September under the auspices of 
the International Decade for People of African Descent. 
The true hidden value lies in eliminating the artificial 
barriers  and  distance  as  we  work  to  cement  those 
connections,  thereby  honouring  the  past,  celebrating 
the present and creating a new pathway for the future, 
one that is truly free and fair to all.
Ms.  Al-Temimi  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It 
gives me pleasure to participate in this debate on the 
commemoration  of  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade. I thank the Secretary-General 
for his efforts in the preparation of his report (A/73/88) 
on this item, reflecting a wide range of measures and 
activities implemented over the past three years aimed 
at spreading knowledge of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave trade.
In  view  of  the  strong  belief  of  the  State  of  Qatar 
in  the  importance  of  protecting  human  freedom 
and  dignity,  regardless  of  racial,  religious  or  other 
differences, we were among the sponsors of resolution 
70/7,  pursuant  to  which  a  commemorative  memorial 
was established. We have also provided the necessary 
material and moral support for the establishment of that 
memorial, which reflects humankind’s rejection of all 
forms of slavery and the humiliation of human beings. 
The  memorial  at  the  United  Nations  Headquarters 
stands tall in recognition of that.
I take this opportunity to commend the Permanent 
Memorial Committee, the Group of African States, the 
Caribbean Community and UNESCO for implementing 
the  resolution  pertaining  to  the  establishment  of  the 
memorial in recognition of the victims of slavery and 
the transatlantic slave trade. We are honoured to be an 
active member of the Permanent Memorial Committee.
We meet today not only to commemorate the victims 
of slavery but also to learn from the lessons of the past. 
In  that  regard,  I  stress  the  importance  of  educating 
future generations about the causes of slavery and the 
transatlantic slave trade, as well as about the dangers 
of racism and bigotry. This meeting also represents an 
opportunity to call for the implementation of measures 
against all forms of slavery in our contemporary world, 
particularly the phenomenon of trafficking in persons, 
which has become widespread all over the world.
In view of the important role played by education 
in  instilling  human  values  in  future  generations,  the 
State  of  Qatar  has  adopted  curricula  that  stress  the 
importance  of  freedom  and  fighting  slavery,  while 
promoting the values of our tolerant Islamic religion, 
which prohibits slavery, and our tolerant cultural and 
social heritage in that regard.
6/8 
18-39311
21/11/2018 
A/73/PV.38
In  view  of  the  strong  belief  of  the  State  of  Qatar 
in the importance of protecting and promoting human 
rights and as an active member of the Group of Friends 
United against Human Trafficking, we have supported 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  fight 
trafficking in persons and have taken part therein. We 
have  also  supported  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  since  its 
adoption and facilitated the consultations regarding the 
Political declaration on the implementation of the United 
Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking 
in Persons (resolution 72/1), adopted at the high-level 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  held  in  September 
2017.  We  have  also  enacted  several  legislative  and 
executive  measures  against  trafficking  in  persons  at 
the  national  level,  including  the  establishment  of  a 
national committee against trafficking in persons that 
is in charge of establishing and implementing a national 
plan  to  combat  trafficking  in  persons.  The  State  of 
Qatar has also been one of the largest contributors to 
the United Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of 
trafficking in persons since its inception.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the State 
of  Qatar  continues  to  implement  resolution  70/7, 
particularly with respect to educating present and future 
generations about the lessons learned from slavery, its 
consequences and the transatlantic slave trade.
Mrs.  Tripathi  (India):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary General for his report under agenda item 121 
on the commemoration of the abolition of slavery and 
the transatlantic slave trade (A/73/88).
The  transatlantic  slave  trade,  which  lasted  over 
400  years,  is  undeniably  one  of  the  most  tragic  and 
inhumane chapters in recorded human history. It was the 
manifestation of greed and immoral pursuit for profit, 
coupled  with  an  unbridled  abuse  of  power  exercised 
by  the  mighty  over  the  weak,  that  forced  millions 
from their homes to toil in faraway lands. It destroyed 
millions  of  lives  over  generations  and  changed  the 
socioeconomic  fabric  of  countries  in  Africa,  South 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  transatlantic  slave 
trade  was  an  instance  of  what  an  ungoverned  and 
lawless globalization can lead to.
The uprooted African communities have contributed 
greatly  to  the  local  economies  and  influenced  the 
arts,  culture  and  life  of  societies  where  they  now 
live.  However,  many  of  those  communities  continue 
to  face  the  scars  of  deep-rooted  racial  discrimination 
and  oppression.  Chronic  poverty  continues  to  persist 
in  the  economies  that  were  deliberately  designed  to 
bring  profit  to  the  elite  in  faraway  lands  in  a  bygone 
era.  It  is  therefore  important  to  understand  what  the 
transatlantic slave trade and slavery meant so that we 
can draw lessons from our collective history.
It is in that context that we welcome and continue to 
support the various relevant activities and programmes 
undertaken  by  the  Department  of  Public  Information 
for  education  and  awareness-raising  about  that  dark 
phase in history and to commemorate the International 
Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the 
Transatlantic Slave Trade in March every year, which 
honours  the  memory  of  the  millions  who  suffered 
through that brutal system.
India  and  the  Department  of  Public  Information 
co-organized  an  exhibition  two  years  back  on  the 
history  of  enslaved  East  Africans  who  were  taken  to 
India. Many of them rose to positions of military and 
political authority in India. The exhibition brings out 
the  far  greater  social  mobility  experienced  by  those 
individuals in India.
UNESCO has also played a key role in organizing 
and  linking  programmes  through  the  Slave  Route 
project  to  spread  understanding  of  the  impact  and 
consequences of the slave trade. With the abolition of 
slavery,  the  colonial  Powers  turned  to  using  millions 
of  Indian  indentured  labourers,  at  virtually  no  cost, 
to work on plantations across the world to perpetuate 
their  economic  domination.  UNESCO’s  International 
Indentured Labour Route project is another significant 
effort to preserve the memory and lessons of that phase.
The  International  Decade  of  People  of  African 
in  2015,  also  provides 
Descent,  which  started 
an  opportunity 
the  most  valuable 
contributions  that  the  once-enslaved  people  and  their 
descendants  have  made  to  the  societies  that  forced 
them into bondage.
to  showcase 
India  is  proud  to  have  joined  as  one  of  the 
lead  contributors  to  the  fund  for  the  permanent 
memorial  in  supporting  the  efforts  of  the  Caribbean 
community,  African  nations  and  others,  which  led  to 
the  establishment  of  the  permanent  memorial,  which 
is  named  the  Ark  of  Return,  at  the  United  Nations. 
We  deeply  appreciate  the  leadership  of  Ambassador 
Rattray of Jamaica in that endeavour.
18-39311
7/8
A/73/PV.38 
21/11/2018
We  firmly  believe  that  we  must  continue  to  raise 
awareness  about  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  through 
education  and  outreach  activities.  We  hope  that  wide 
participation  in  those  events  will  lead  to  changed 
attitudes,  with  salutary  consequences  for  our  global 
society,  so  that  we  can  avoid  the  recurrence  of  the 
past injustices.
The  Acting  President 
(spoke 
in  Spanish): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda item 121.
The meeting rose at 10.55 a.m.
8/8 
18-39311
