United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
32nd plenary meeting
Friday, 2 November 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.32
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Beleffi  (San 
Marino), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 69 (continued)
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/73/53 
and A/73/53/Add.1)
Mr. Sarmantayev (Kazakhstan): We would like to 
welcome His Excellency Mr. Vojislav Šuc, President of 
the Human Rights Council, and thank him for briefing 
us  on  the  work  and  achievements  of  the  Council  in 
2018  (see  A/73/PV.31).  We  would  also  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Ms.  Bachelet  on  her 
appointment as the next High Commissioner for Human 
Rights and all the newly elected Human Rights Council 
members and wish them all success in their important 
work.
Over  the  12  years  of  its  existence,  the  Council 
has proved to be the key United Nations human rights 
institution  contributing  to  the  promotion  and  the 
protection  of  human  rights  at  both  the  global  and  the 
national levels. The Council has also demonstrated its 
ability to respond rapidly to human rights violations in 
various parts of the world. Kazakhstan is convinced that 
the work of the Council should continue to be guided by 
the principles of universality, impartiality, objectivity, 
non-selectivity and constructive international dialogue 
with  a  view  to  promoting  and  protecting  all  human 
rights — civil, political, economic, social and cultural. 
The Council serves as the main forum for dialogue on 
the thematic issues in the sphere of human rights. The 
Council also brings to the attention of the international 
community  the  human  rights  situations  in  many 
countries and thematic concerns that require particular 
attention.
In order to be effective and lead to positive results 
on the ground, the Council’s work on country situations 
should  be  based  primarily  on  the  issues  of  technical 
cooperation and capacity-building, instead of increased 
monitoring  and  investigation  activities.  In  that  sense, 
dialogue  and  the  constructive  engagement  of  the 
Council’s  country-specific  mechanisms  with  States 
should be at the heart of its activities.
We believe, as many others do, that the Universal 
Periodic  Review  is  truly  the  most  effective,  impartial 
and  depoliticized  mechanism  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council; it has its own dynamic and most importantly, 
is universally recognized. We take an active part in the 
Universal Periodic Review session and are preparing to 
go through our own third cycle in fall of 2019.
Kazakhstan  has  also  been  actively  cooperating 
with  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  special  procedures. 
As members may know, my country is among those that 
have issued them a standing invitation, which confirms 
our openness and strong commitment to the promotion 
and  protection  of  all  human  rights  in  our  country.  In 
that regard, I would like to note that we are expecting 
the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection 
of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  while 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-35949 (E)
*1835949*

A/73/PV.32 
02/11/2018
countering terrorism, Ms. Fionnuala Ní Aoláin, to visit 
Kazakhstan in May 2019.
submitted 
its 
In  March,  Kazakhstan 
fifth 
periodic  report  to  the  United  Nations  Committee  on 
the  Elimination  of  Discrimination  against  Women. 
In  November,  we  are  planning  to  submit  our  fourth 
periodic report on the implementation of our obligations 
under  the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Torture 
and our eighth, ninth and tenth periodic reports to the 
United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial 
Discrimination.  Next  year,  we  are  also  expecting  to 
discuss our reports in the United Nations Committee on 
Economic,  Social  and Cultural  Rights  and the  United 
Nations  Committee  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities.
Kazakhstan fully supports the work of the Human 
Rights  Council  in  promoting,  justice,  dignity  and 
equality  for  all.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  inform 
members of the Assembly that we are putting forward 
our candidacy for the Human Rights Council starting 
in 2022.
In  conclusion, 
let  me  confirm  Kazakhstan’s 
commitment  to  the  protection  of  fundamental  human 
rights and freedoms, and further close interaction with 
all mechanisms of the global human rights network.
Mr.  Yelchenko  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to convey the sincere appreciation of my delegation 
to the President of the Human Rights Council (HRC), 
the Ambassador of Slovenia, Mr. Vojislav Šuc, for his 
able and effective management of the HRC’s activities, 
and  particularly  for  his  leadership  in  the  preparation 
process to the review of the functioning of the HRC.
Ukraine attaches great importance to the review of 
the HRC’s work. We are convinced that the result of the 
review should improve and strengthen the effectiveness 
of the Council and its ability to protect human rights. 
In that regard, I would like to underline the importance 
of strengthening the prevention aspect of the Council’s 
activities.  We  believe 
the  Council  should 
increasingly  strengthen  the  preventive  dimension  of 
its activity and address, in a timely and proactive way, 
emerging  human  rights  situations  in  order  to  prevent 
grave human rights violations, crimes against humanity 
and genocide.
that 
The persistence of human rights violations around 
the globe clearly demonstrates the need to focus more 
attention on preventive action. Regrettably, oftentimes 
we can see that the norms of international human rights 
law  and  international  humanitarian  law  are  breached 
and flouted with impunity.
In  2010,  Ukraine  initiated  the  introduction  of  an 
element  of  prevention  into  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights Council and advocated the adoption of Human 
Rights Council resolutions on the role of prevention in 
the promotion and protection of human rights. We are 
grateful to the core group countries for their cooperation 
in  supporting  and  developing  that  subject.  Preventive 
measures  and  strategies  are  progressively  gaining 
importance  as  an  effective  tool  to  avert  preventable 
threats  and  emergencies  in  the  human  rights  sphere. 
Due  to  the  fundamental  and  overarching  nature  of 
prevention,  broad  interregional  dialogue  and  holistic 
consideration are necessary.
The elaboration of an agreed concept of prevention 
and  applicable  guidance,  endorsed  by  the  United 
Nations,  could  assist  in  providing  an  adequate  level 
of  human  rights  protection  and  strengthening  well-
developed  conflict  prevention  mechanisms  at  the 
United  Nations.  The  Human  Rights  Council  has  a 
crucial role to play in achieving that objective. We are 
ready to continue and strengthen cooperation with all 
interested stakeholders in order to deepen the concept 
of prevention and fully exploit the preventive potential 
of the Council.
Ukraine highly appreciates the contribution of the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  its  special  procedures  to 
address the current human rights situation in Ukraine, 
including in the occupied Crimea. Ukraine is interested 
in and open to a broad and inclusive interaction on that 
track,  and  in  that  spirit  we  initiated  HRC  resolution 
26/30, entitled “Cooperation and assistance to Ukraine 
in the field of human rights”. We appreciate the support 
of the United Nations Member States and international 
institutions for our human rights aspirations. We also 
believe that such international support should include 
efforts to counter human rights violations committed as 
a result of Russian aggression, including in particular 
in the occupied territories.
Ukraine  attaches  exceptional  importance  to  the 
implementation of resolutions 71/205 and 72/190 on the 
situation of human rights in the Autonomous Republic 
of  Crimea  and  the  city  of  Sevastopol,  Ukraine,  in 
particular the provisions providing for the international 
monitoring  of  the  situation  in  Crimea,  where  human 
2/8 
18-35949
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.32
rights have been under constant attack by the Russian 
occupying Power since 2014.
We  commend  the  work  of  the  human  rights 
monitoring mission in Ukraine and commit to continuing 
our close cooperation with the mission. The mission’s 
recommendations  for  Ukraine  help  us  make  progress 
in achieving the highest international standards in the 
field  of  human  rights.  We  also  note  the  tremendous 
efforts of the High Commissioner’s Office in preparing 
the second dedicated thematic report on the situation of 
human rights in the temporarily occupied Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, pursuant 
to resolution 72/190.
Despite having been denied entry to the Ukrainian 
peninsula  by  the  Russian  Federation,  the  monitoring 
mission  had  multiple  reliable  sources  of  information 
to  conduct  quality  monitoring  of  human  rights 
developments  in  the  occupied  Crimea.  At  the  same 
time,  acknowledging  the  efforts  of  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
in monitoring the situation at development distance, we 
continue to insist on and call for direct reporting from 
the ground.
The continuing aggression of the Russian Federation 
not only negatively affects the security and humanitarian 
situations  in  the  Luhansk  and  Donetsk  regions,  but 
also seriously undermines the basic human rights and 
fundamental freedoms of the civilians remaining in the 
territories  not  under  Ukrainian  Government  control. 
The  grave  violations  and  abuses  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  committed  by  the  Russian 
occupation administrations in Donbas and Crimea must 
not be ignored. Russia must abide by its obligations as 
an occupying Power and prevent humanitarian crises in 
the territories under its temporary control.
Ukraine  fully  supports  the  system  of  special 
procedures  as  a  unique 
independent  monitoring 
mechanism  within  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  as 
an  integral  part  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights 
machinery.  We  firmly  believe  that  cooperation  and 
transparency are crucial to the promotion and protection 
of human rights. With that in mind, Ukraine has long 
time maintained an open invitation to all Human Rights 
Council’s special procedures.
We  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Nils  Melzer,  Special 
Rapporteur  on  torture  and  other  cruel,  inhuman  or 
degrading  treatment  or  punishment;  Mr.  Juan  Pablo 
Bohoslavsky,  Independent  Expert  on  the  effects  of 
foreign  debt  and  other  related  international  financial 
obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human 
rights,  particularly  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights; and members of the Working Group on Enforced 
or  Involuntary  Disappearances  for  the  missions  they 
have  conducted  in  Ukraine  over  the  past  year.  The 
Ukrainian authorities are fully committed to providing 
the integrity of visits of all special procedures and other 
monitoring  mechanisms  in  order  to  ensure  the  full 
implementation of their mandates.
In conclusion, let me reiterate that Ukraine remains 
committed to actively engaging further in the work of 
the Human Rights Council.
Mr.  Sukhee  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to express our sincere appreciation to Ambassador 
Vojislav Šuc, President of the Human Rights Council, 
for his leadership and presentation of the report of the 
Human Rights Council (A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1) to 
the General Assembly today.
My  delegation  commends 
the  Human  Rights 
Council  as  a  key  platform  for  constructive  dialogue 
and  cooperation  on  promoting  human  rights.  The 
current report of the Council paints a realistic picture 
of  the  current  human  rights  situations  and  challenges 
worldwide  and 
recommends  possible  ways  and 
instruments  to  defend  human  rights,  equality  and 
dignity  and  combat  intolerance,  discrimination  and 
violence.
With  the  strong  and  wide  support  of  Member 
States,  Mongolia  joined  the  Human  Rights  Council 
in  2016  for  the  first  time.  The  Council  possesses  a 
unique  mandate  to  promote  universal  respect  for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  guided  by 
the  principles  of  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity 
and non-selectivity. Human rights are a universal value, 
and as a member of the Human Rights Council we are 
committed  to  promoting  human  rights  for  all.  In  that 
regard, I am pleased to note that my Government has 
supported  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  initiatives 
aimed at protecting the rights of the child, women and 
persons  with  disabilities,  the  freedom  of  expression 
and the freedom of assembly and association as priority 
issues outlined in our voluntary pledges.
Mongolia  has  been  a  strong  supporter  of  the 
Council’s  mechanisms.  We  have  therefore  extended  a 
standing  invitation  to  and  constructively  cooperated 
with the special procedures mandate-holders since early 
2004. Since then, we have received visits of the Special 
18-35949
3/8
A/73/PV.32 
02/11/2018
Rapporteurs on the right to food, on torture, on the right 
to education, on extreme poverty and on human rights, 
as well as a visit of the Working Group on business and 
human  rights.  Most  recently,  the  Special  Rapporteur 
on  the  issue  of  human  rights  obligations  relating  to 
the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable 
environment and the Special Rapporteur on the human 
rights to safe drinking water and sanitation paid visits 
to my country. Furthermore, we have accepted a request 
from the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights  defenders  and  the  Independent  Expert  on  the 
effects  of  foreign  debt  and  other  related  international 
financial  obligations  of  States  on  the  full  enjoyment 
of all human rights, particularly economic, social and 
cultural  rights  to  pay  a  working  visit  to  Mongolia  in 
2019.
We  will  continue  to  attach  importance  to  the 
treaty  body  reporting.  We  appreciate  the  fact  that 
more committees are adopting the simplified reporting 
procedure,  which  we  consider 
to  be  practicable 
and  effective  both  in  terms  of  the  workload  of  the 
committees  and  member  States,  like  Mongolia,  that 
face capacity restraints.
One  of  the  major  achievements  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  is  indisputably  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review (UPR) — an effective mechanism to assess the 
human  rights  situations  of  all  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  remain  firmly  committed  to 
the  UPR  process.  In  order  to  fulfil  our  commitment, 
the  recommendations  have  been  translated  into  the 
national  plan  of  action  for  2016-2019.  In  July  2018, 
we  launched  a  technical  assistance  project,  with  the 
support  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), to advance 
the implementation of the action plan, which, inter alia, 
includes establishing a national preventive mechanism, 
developing mandatory training programmes on human 
rights, establishing a national mechanism for reporting 
and follow-up, and creating a national recommendations 
tracking database. We are of the view that OHCHR has 
a key role to play in disseminating and advancing best 
practices  for  enhancing  national  capacity,  including, 
inter alia, strengthening the potential of national human 
rights institutions by providing technical assistance in 
support of the efforts of States so as to allow them to 
fulfil their human rights obligations.
As  a  member  of  the  Council,  we  attach  great 
importance to the ongoing discussions on strengthening 
the  efficiency  of  the  Council.  We  consider  that  the 
strengthening  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  should 
primarily  focus  on  enhancing  its  contribution  to  the 
promotion and protection of human rights. However, we 
resolutely support the view that any agreement reached 
on  long-term  efficiency  measures  should  be  adopted 
by  a  consensual  decision.  Mongolia  stands  ready  to 
provide  its  support  for  initiatives  aimed  at  improving 
the working methods of the Council in a manner that 
is  beneficial  to  all  States,  as  well  as  other  relevant 
stakeholders.
In  conclusion,  I  reaffirm  the  firm  commitment 
of  my  Government  to  working  closely  with  the  High 
Commissioner and her Office.
Ms.  Feldman  (Australia):  Australia  thanks  the 
President of the Human Rights Council (HRC) for the 
presentation of his report of the Council (A/73/53 and 
A/73/53/Add.1).
As a member of the HRC, Australia is pleased to 
take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to 
the Council as a leading component of the multilateral 
human  rights  system.  We  commend  the  President  for 
his  determined  and  ongoing  leadership  in  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  improve 
its  efficiency.  Australia  will  continue  to  engage 
constructively in those efforts by supporting outcomes 
that enhance the Council’s core mandate of promoting 
and  protecting  human  rights  and  preventing  and 
addressing  human  rights  violations.  Australia  also 
believes  that  measures  taken  must  not  hinder  the 
ability of civil society or small States, including those 
not  present  in  Geneva,  to  engage  in  the  work  of  the 
Council. Australia has supported a range of proposals 
under  discussion,  including  capping  the  number  of 
panel discussions, improved transparency on potential 
budget  impacts  and  biennializing  or  triennializing 
resolutions.  We  remain  open  to  further  creative  and 
constructive  ideas  from  member  States  to  strengthen 
the Human Rights Council.
While  Australia  recognizes  that  efficiencies  can 
and must be found, United Nations Member States must 
also ensure that the Human Rights Council is adequately 
resourced to carry out its mandate. Efforts to improve 
the efficiency of the Human Rights Council are closely 
linked to those to improve its effectiveness. We remain 
committed to strengthening the Human Rights Council 
through cooperation, transparency and objectivity — a 
point Australia made in its incoming member’s pledge, 
delivered  during  the  HRC’s  first  session  in  2018.  We 
4/8 
18-35949
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.32
hope to see that pledge taken up by all members, and 
we invite all States recently elected to the Council for 
the term 2019-2021 to adopt the pledge at the fortieth 
regular session of the HRC.
We continue to stress the need for stronger processes 
to  ensure  that  HRC  members  uphold  the  highest 
human  rights  standards.  We  should  also  strengthen 
civil  society  engagement  and  reduce  the  number  of 
resolutions  and  proliferation  of  mandates  to  allow 
States  to  focus  on  implementation  as  the  crucial  next 
step  in  improving  human  rights.  Australia  was  proud 
to  sponsor  the  non-governmental  organization-led 
event for Council candidates held here in New York in 
September  to  promote  greater  transparency.  We  urge 
all States seeking election to the HRC to participate in 
such events.
Mr.  Giorgio  (Eritrea):  Eritrea  welcomes 
the 
opportunity to interact with the President of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Council (A/73/53 and A/73/53/Add.1).
My  delegation 
fully  associates 
itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  by 
the  representative  of 
Mozambique (see A/73/PV.31) on behalf of the Group 
of African States.
The Human Rights Council — a subsidiary organ of 
the General Assembly — has the principal responsibility 
for ensuring universal respect for the protection of all 
human rights in a fair and equal manner, as enshrined 
in  resolution  60/251.  We  recall  that  the  establishment 
of  the  Council  was  the  result  of  the  failure  of  the 
Commission on Human Rights to effectively fulfil its 
mandate owing to politicization and double standards. 
Unfortunately, the Human Rights Council continues to 
suffer from the same ills that led to the Commission on 
Human Rights becoming defunct. If we fail to adhere to 
the sacrosanct principles of mutual respect and indulge 
in  politicization  and  double  standards,  as  we  often 
do,  inevitably  the  fate  of  our  sole  intergovernmental 
body  on  human  rights  will  be  the  same  as  that  of  its 
predecessor.
Eritrea  is  an  independent  and  constructive  State 
actor.  It  believes  in  international  peace  and  progress 
and  that  the  promotion  of  human  rights  is  optimally 
achieved through solidarity among nations and genuine, 
mutually beneficial partnerships. As a member of the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  the  term  from  2019-2021, 
it  will  work  to  achieve  a  more  effective  and  credible 
Council. It will endeavour to engage in inclusive, cross-
regional and transparent dialogue on the protection and 
the promotion of human rights across all countries and 
regions.
The  work  of  the  Council  continues  to  expand 
with  the  increased  adoption  of  resolutions.  While  the 
efficacy  of  their  contributions  remains  questionable, 
there is a serious need to comprehensively assess and 
ask ourselves whether the current work of the Council 
is reflective of the huge responsibility and weight that 
it bears in safeguarding the principles contained in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and as the body 
responsible  for  the  effective  maintenance  of  human 
rights within the United Nations system.
There is also a need to uphold the intergovernmental 
character  both  of  the  agenda  and  of  the  working 
methods  of  the  Council.  Considering  the  importance 
of  reassessing  the  work  of  the  Council,  we  cannot 
underestimate  the  significance  of  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR)  as  a  leading  United  Nations  entity  in  the 
area  of  human  rights  in  supporting  Member  States  in 
the  realization  of  their  human  rights  obligations.  In 
that regard, OHCHR should provide equal attention to 
all  human  rights  issues,  as  well  as  ensure  that  every 
member  of  the  Secretariat  fulfils  its  obligation  to 
maintain the independence and integrity of the Office. 
Eritrea continues to advocate for OHCHR programmes 
to be funded from the United Nations regular budget.
the  cardinal 
Eritrea  stresses 
importance  of 
promoting  constructive  international  dialogue  and 
cooperation in dealing with human rights issues. In that 
regard, we restate our firm belief in the centrality of the 
Universal Periodic Review in the fulfilment of States’ 
human rights obligations and in the improvement of the 
situation on the ground.
Eritrea rejects the selective manner in which human 
rights  continue  to  be  addressed  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  Eritrea  opposes  all  politically  motivated 
country-specific  mandates,  which  continue 
to  be 
counterproductive and a waste of resources that could 
have otherwise been used for the concrete promotion of 
human rights. In that connection, Eritrea disassociates 
itself from the part of the report of the Human Rights 
Council containing the text of Human Rights Council 
resolution 38/15, entitled “Situation of human rights in 
Eritrea”.
Finally,  Eritrea  reiterates 
to 
redoubling its own efforts in ensuring a dignified life for 
its  commitment 
18-35949
5/8
A/73/PV.32 
02/11/2018
every one of its citizens. During its term in the Council, 
it will work to enhance the credibility of the Council by 
encouraging increased dialogue and cooperation.
throughout  the  terms  of  the  current  Government  is  a 
testament to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s unstinting 
efforts to uphold the rights and dignity of people.
Mr.  Clyne  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand  would 
like to thank the President of the Human Rights Council 
for his presentation of the annual report of the Human 
Rights Council (see A/73/PV.31).
We are pleased that the Human Rights Council was 
recently able to turn its attention to the disproportionately 
high maternal mortality and morbidity rates affecting 
women  and  girls  in  humanitarian  settings.  In  a  core 
group  of  Burkina  Faso,  Colombia,  Estonia  and  New 
Zealand,  we  were  proud  to  present  resolution  39/10, 
entitled “Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity 
and  human  rights  in  humanitarian  settings”.  The 
resolution was adopted by the Human Rights Council 
by  consensus  on  28  September  and  enjoyed  a  large 
cross-regional group of sponsors. The Council has sent 
a clear message that States must ensure accountability 
and take responsibility for ensuring the right of women 
and girls to an effective remedy for violations of their 
rights  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health.  They  must 
also  guarantee  the  non-recurrence  of  those  violations 
in humanitarian settings.
The resolution also urges States to bring laws and 
policies  concerning  sexual  and  reproductive  health, 
including  international  assistance  policies,  into  line 
with  international  human  rights  law  and  to  repeal 
discriminatory laws relating to third-party authorization 
for  health  information  and  health-care  services.  We 
look  forward  to  the  Council’s  ongoing  work  on  this 
important  issue.  That  includes  a  two-day  meeting  in 
2019  to  discuss  good  practices,  gaps  and  challenges 
in  the  application  of  a  human  rights-based  approach 
to  the  implementation  of  policies  and  programmes  to 
reduce preventable maternal mortality and morbidity in 
humanitarian settings.
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  At  the  outset,  I 
would like to thank the President of the Human Rights 
Council for presenting his reports (see A/73/PV.31).
This  year,  Bangladesh  was  once  again  elected  to 
the  Human  Rights  Council  to  represent  the  Group  of 
Asia-Pacific  States  for  the  2019-2021  term.  We  take 
this opportunity to once again thank Member States for 
their support to Bangladesh. We are fully committed to 
fulfilling  the  pledges  and  commitments  that  we  have 
made and upholding the high objectives of the Council. 
The  election  of  Bangladesh  to  the  Council  twice 
is 
incumbent  upon  all  Member  States 
The delegation of Bangladesh finds the Universal 
Periodic  Review  mechanism  to  be  a  useful  tool  for 
the  Human  Rights  Council  to  engage  with  each  and 
every  Member  State  on  human  rights  issues.  We  did 
our  Universal  Periodic  Review  in  May,  during  which 
the  international  community  highly  appreciated  our 
good  practices  in  upholding  human  rights.  With  the 
engagement of all concerned actors, we regularly follow 
up  on  the  implementation  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  recommendations.  As  an  elected  member  of 
the Council, Bangladesh will continue to promote such 
constructive mechanisms of the Council in the coming 
days.
It 
to 
preserve  the  sanctity  and  credibility  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. The Council membership reflects the 
diversity of the comity of nations and is integral to the 
ownership  and  effectiveness  of  its  work.  It  serves  no 
purpose to undermine the Council without appreciating 
the  progressive,  aspirational  nature  of  its  work  and 
accomplishments. No Member State can claim to have 
a  perfectly  sound  human  rights  record,  and  it  is  only 
expected  that  the  Council  will  forge  ahead  with  its 
work, navigating the many challenges and difficulties 
inherent  within  its  membership.  We  urge  all  Member 
States to constructively engage with the Council’s work 
and ensure the provision of adequate resources for the 
effective delivery of its mandates. In parallel, sustained 
efforts must continue to enhance further efficiency and 
effectiveness  in  the  Council’s  work.  Bangladesh  will 
continue  to  advocate  for  not  using  the  Human  Rights 
Council for political expedience or retaliation.
The  monitoring  of  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
work by media and civil society adds value to its work. 
It  is,  however,  regrettable  if  the  perception  is  created 
that this work is guided by the interests and priorities of 
certain Member States. It is also critical that thorough 
research  and  informed  consultations  be  conducted 
before  making  passing  comments  about  or  ascribing 
scorecards to the human rights record or performance 
of individual Member States.
In  the  interest  of  objectivity,  it  is  critical  that 
Member  States  engage  with  the  mandate-holders  and 
not  with  the  individuals  embodying  the  mandate  at 
any given time. It is the prerogative of the Secretary-
6/8 
18-35949
02/11/2018 
A/73/PV.32
General  to  appoint  the  mandate-holders,  and  it  is 
incumbent on Member States to facilitate the discharge 
of their respective mandates. We do not subscribe to the 
idea of refusing to engage with a mandate-holder on the 
basis of his or her individual identity. If questions are 
raised about his or her objectivity or impartiality, the 
concerned Member States and others concerned should 
continue to remain engaged in the interest of promoting 
a balanced approach.
recent 
During 
the  Council’s  most 
session, 
Bangladesh took an evident interest in the follow-up to 
the work of the independent international fact-finding 
mission on Myanmar. We reiterate our appreciation to 
the  fact-finding  mission  for  its  authoritative  work  in 
documenting evidence-based information on the gravest 
crimes under international law committed against the 
Rohingya  and  other  people  forcibly  displaced  from 
Myanmar’s Rakhine state. We believe that the Council 
took decisive action yet again in renewing the mandate 
of the fact-finding mission and in deciding to establish 
an ongoing investigation mechanism to collate, analyse 
and preserve the evidence of atrocity crimes against the 
Rohingya and others affected.
We have always maintained that the possibility for 
the repatriation of the Rohingya to their place of origin 
in  Myanmar  can  be  realized  only  in  an  environment 
that  restores  their  safety,  dignity,  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  We  see  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s  engagement  to  be  an  effort  to  safeguard 
the  interests  of  the  Rohingya  and  other  minorities  in 
Kachin  and  Shan  states  from  the  systematic  human 
rights  violations  to  which  they  had  been  subjected  to 
date. The outright rejection of the Council’s overtures 
to  Myanmar  can  be  construed  by  those  affected  as  a 
continued denial by the concerned State of the human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  the  Rohingya, 
including  their  pathway  to  citizenship.  We  regret 
Myanmar’s  non-cooperation  to  date  with  the  fact-
finding  mission  and  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
situation of human rights in Myanmar. The question of 
the objective of the mission or the Special Rapporteur 
can be raised only if Myanmar constructively engages 
with them.
serve  as  an 
Accountability  can 
important 
confidence-building  measure  for  the  Rohingya  to 
return  voluntarily,  without  which  their  repatriation 
would not be sustainable. While our continued efforts 
and  readiness  for  the  safe,  voluntary  and  dignified 
repatriation  of  Rohingyas  to  their  original  place 
of  abode  in  the  Rakhine  state  are  about  to  come  to 
fruition, one should not be oblivious to the imperative 
need to ensure accountability for the gravest atrocities 
perpetrated  against  them.  Accountability  is  crucial  to 
the  implementation  of  the  bilateral  instruments  and 
should therefore be pursued in earnest. We would like 
to reiterate our commitment to working closely with the 
Human Rights Council in the coming days.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
Before giving the floor to speakers in exercise of the 
right of reply, may I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes for the first intervention and 5 minutes for the 
second, and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr. Ju Hyok So (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): My delegation would like to exercise its right of 
reply with regard to the statement made by the observer 
of the European Union (EU).
We  condemn  the  politicized  allegations  made  by 
the  EU  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, which bear no relation to the genuine protection 
and promotion of human rights. My delegation strongly 
rejects  the  forcibly  adopted,  anti-Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  resolutions  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, as well as its Special Rapporteur, the Group 
of Independent Experts on Accountability pursuant to 
Human Rights Council Resolution 31/18 on the situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea, and the report of the commission of inquiry 
on  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  (A/HRC/25/63),  because  they  are  based  on 
lies and information that are fabricated to tarnish and 
overthrow the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
Those lies and information are fabricated by defectors 
in line with the plotted scenario of the hostile forces, 
with the worst coming from the mouths of the human 
scum  criminals  who  have  betrayed  their  motherland, 
abandoned their families and escaped after committing 
crimes — all to earn money.
It 
is  disrespectful
towards  and  a  mockery 
of  the  international  community  for  the  EU  and 
Western  countries  to  spread  without  hesitation  the 
lies  and  sophistry  of  those  worthless  defectors in 
this  international  Hall.  It  is  the  EU  and  Western 
countries  that  have  committed  vicious  human  rights 
violations throughout the world, such as Islamophobia, 
18-35949
7/8
A/73/PV.32 
02/11/2018
xenophobia, the humiliation of ethnic minorities, sexual 
violence  and  so  on.  The  current  global  refugee  crisis 
is attributable to the Western countries. My delegation 
strongly  requests  that  the  EU  and  Western  countries 
do not fuss over the non-existent Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea human rights issue, but focus instead 
on solving their own miserable human rights situations.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 69.
The meeting rose at 3.40 p.m.
8/8 
18-35949
