United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
17th plenary meeting
Monday, 8 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.17
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 112 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/73/1)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Members  will 
recall that the Secretary-General presented his annual 
report  (A/73/1)  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  6th 
plenary meeting, on 25 September, in accordance with 
decision 73/502 of 21 September.
straining 
societies; 
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  The  general  debate 
always provides an unparalleled opportunity to hear our 
leaders’ views on the state of the world and the ability 
of the Organization to deal with the challenges we are 
facing. Hence, I begin by drawing upon what we heard.
In countless forms, we heard that armed conflicts 
and  terrorism  are  continuing  to  expand  alarmingly; 
large  movements  of  people  fleeing  conflicts  are 
increasingly 
humanitarian 
nightmares  are  playing  out  with  alarming  repetition; 
climate  change  events  are  becoming  more  regular; 
environmental  challenges  are  becoming  more  urgent; 
multiple ailments are hamstringing efforts to improve 
global  health;  technological  innovation  is  driving 
economies,  societies  and  individual  responses  into 
uncharted territories in a networked world, even while 
development  concerns  remain  paramount  for  the  vast 
majority of the world’s population. We also heard clearly 
that the uneven impact of those cataclysmic changes is 
causing enormous discontent, and all that shake-up is 
testing multilateralism as never before.
We  acknowledge  that  the  Secretary-General  has 
embarked upon reshaping the organizational structures 
of  the  Secretariat  to  improve  its  ability  to  better 
deliver  in  times  of  change.  We  welcome  his  personal 
engagement in guiding that process. India will support 
the  Secretary-General  in  the  implementation  of  those 
proposals  for  change,  including  through  voluntary 
contributions, as appropriate.
However, those changes address but a small aspect 
of the need for change in the broader firmament. We face 
a much larger set of issues that need to be tackled if we 
are to remain relevant. As the Secretary-General said, 
twenty-first-century  challenges  outpace 
twentieth-
century  institutions  and  mindsets.  To  his  credit,  in 
his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  last  month  (see 
A/73/PV.6), 
the  Secretary-General  also  candidly 
accepted that all seven challenges he had outlined at the 
start of the seventy-second session in 2017 (see A/72/
PV.3)  remained  unresolved  to  date,  even  as  we  have 
moved  into  the  seventy-third  session.  Their  lack  of 
resolution is symbolic of the need for changed mindsets.
It is obvious that the world is awash in challenges 
that  the  current  institutional  arrangements  are  ill-
equipped to deal with. For example, new technologies 
are increasingly changing the nature and dynamics of 
international conflict. Cyberwarfare, unmanned aerial 
drones  and  combat  robots  are  just  three  instances  of 
technological  change  that  shape  the  future  of  warfare 
and raise profound ethical and normative questions.
Similarly,  there  is  no  global  approach  to  dealing 
with  basic  issues  regarding  frontier  technologies.  For 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30208 (E)
*1830208*

A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
example,  as  the  Internet  becomes  nearly  ubiquitous, 
what rights do individuals have to privacy? How should 
tensions  between  individual  liberties  and  collective 
security  be  mitigated?  The  General  Assembly  is  not 
addressing  the  development  and  normative  aspects 
nor  is  the  Security  Council  addressing  the  peace  and 
security implications. That is but one of the many new 
areas where international mechanisms for cooperation 
and  collaboration  are  either  weak,  incomplete  or 
non-existent.  We  therefore  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  initiative  to  establish  the  High-level  Panel 
on  Digital  Cooperation.  We  hope  that  the  outcome  of 
the Panel will help us better understand and respond to 
exponential technologies.
With  regard  to  frontier  technologies  and  other 
issues  such  as  climate  change,  debt  sustainability, 
counter-terrorism,  illicit  financial  flows  and  tackling 
pandemics, to name but a few, we should be considering 
scenarios,  preparing  plans  to  prevent  upheavals  and 
taking stronger steps to mitigate risks. Many of those 
problems  require  continuous  attention  rather  than 
one-off  solutions.  To  counter  terrorism,  for  example, 
we  need  to  establish  a  reliable  and  efficient  set  of 
controls  for  monitoring  borders  and  financial  flows. 
Such efforts will work only if appropriate standards are 
widely adopted and cooperation in implementing them 
becomes routine.
Global  cooperation  and  collaboration  have  been 
critical  to  achieving  vastly  greater  well-being  over 
the  past  70  years.  However,  proliferating  global 
problems  demand  new  narratives  and  new  forms  of 
cooperation.  For  example,  we  will  need  international 
cooperation  of  an  unprecedented  nature  and  kind  to 
promote climate action, as specified in the findings of 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report 
released earlier today.
We  cannot  merely  focus  on  exterminating  bugs 
while  allowing  life-threatening  wild  beasts  to  roam 
free.  We  cannot  spend  our  time  clearing  the  weeds, 
oblivious to the growth of the jungle all around us. If 
we do so, we will be nursing an establishment that has 
declined almost to the vanishing point with respect to 
the  overarching  challenges  that  States  acting  on  their 
own cannot hope to overcome.
Updating  the  current  architecture  of  international 
institutions  that  are  so  out  of  tune  with  the  modern 
world  is  imperative  if  the  new  global  challenges  are 
to be met. Nowhere is that need for common purpose 
required more than in reforming the Security Council. 
Today, we have a Council that is all about primacy but 
has little purpose. We need to fix the flaws. We need 
to  do  it  before  it  is  too  late.  We  need  to  do  so  before 
the technologies of the future sharpen the conflicts of 
the  past,  while  the  Council  remains  nursing  its  self-
inflicted wounds of diminishing relevance.
We  cannot  pose  as  guardians  of  a  status  quo 
that  no  longer  exists.  To  use  a  pretty  metaphor,  the 
state  of  our  times  is  one  great  blooming,  buzzing 
confusion,  akin  to  the  world  of  a  newborn.  We  need 
to  undertake  a  new  journey  towards  a  reformed  and 
reinvigorated  multilateral  system.  Whether  we  do  so 
or not will determine the destiny of this Organization. 
It  is  a  decision  that  all  of  us  who  see  the  benefits  of 
multilateralism will need to take if we desire to stem 
the tide against it.
Mrs. Rodríguez Camejo (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  presenting  his 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/73/1)  (see 
A/73/PV.6), and we convey to him our appreciation for 
the work he has done during his term.
During 
the  high-level  general  debate  of 
the 
seventy-third  session,  the  General  Assembly  became 
the  focus  of  global  attention  not  only  because  our 
leaders were present and set forth guidelines but also 
because  of  the  strongest  commitment  of  our  peoples 
and the vast majority of our Governments to the United 
Nations and multilateralism, which was reaffirmed in 
their statements. As the Secretary-General states in his 
report, it is clear that multilateralism is more important 
than  ever  in  these  difficult  times,  when  problems  are 
becoming  increasingly  global.  Genuine  political  will, 
together with solidarity and international cooperation, 
is  the  only  solution  to  the  current  challenges,  which 
include  3,460  million  people 
in  poverty, 
821 million suffering from hunger, 758 million who are 
illiterate and 844 million human beings who lack basic 
drinking water services, all of which is exacerbated by 
the adverse effects of climate change.
living 
Although  we  have 
important  commitments 
that  make  up  the  road  map  to  achieve  sustainable 
development, such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction 
and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, challenges with 
regard  to  their  implementation  persist  both  nationally 
and internationally. The fact that developing countries 
2/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
lack  the  new,  additional  and  predictable  financial 
resources, as well as the infrastructure and technology 
needed  to  implement  those  agendas  at  the  national 
level,  is  worrisome.  In  that  context,  the  fulfilment  of 
development commitments, including the 0.7 per cent of 
the gross domestic product of rich countries as official 
development assistance, becomes even more important.
We  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to 
reform the Organization. If the United Nations is to be 
more democratic and effective, the General Assembly 
must be revitalized and strengthened and able to fully 
exercise the powers conferred on it by the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  without  interference  by  the  Security 
Council  in  its  work  or  in  the  work  of  its  organs.  In 
order  to  make  it  more  democratic  and  representative, 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  requires  changing 
its  composition  and  working  methods.  We  must  not 
continue to postpone that objective.
The  best  way  to  prevent  conflicts  is  to  eradicate 
their  root  causes.  In  that  regard,  Cuba  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  dimensions, 
including inequality, hunger and social exclusion.
Cuba  reaffirms  that  unwavering  respect  for  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and for international law remains a basic pillar 
of  international  security.  That  implies  full  respect 
for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States, 
the  non-use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  in  international 
relations,  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States  and  the  settlement  of  international  disputes  by 
peaceful means.
international  order,  stop 
We must change the current unjust and profoundly 
unequal 
the  application 
of  unilateral  coercive  measures  against  developing 
countries  and  put  an  end  to  colonialism  and  foreign 
occupation. We reaffirm that respect for the political, 
economic, social and cultural systems that nations have 
freely  chosen  for  themselves  contributes  not  only  to 
sustainable development but also to the maintenance of 
international peace and security.
We  strongly  condemn  and  reject 
the  unjust 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  my  country  for  more 
than 50 years. With the force of justice, morality and 
truth and the support of the international community, 
we demand once again the lifting of that cruel policy, 
which  constitutes  a  violation  of  international  law  and 
of the human rights of all Cubans, including their right 
to development.
The  Cuban  people  have  a  great  deal  to  be  proud 
of with regard to what they have achieved in the past 
six  decades.  To  cite  only  a  few  recent  examples,  we 
were  the  first  territory  in  Latin  America  to  be  free 
of  illiteracy;  Cuba  was  the  first  country  in  the  world 
to  be  validated  by  the  World  Health  Organization  as 
having eliminated mother-to-child transmission of HIV 
and syphilis; and UNICEF declared our small island a 
country free of child malnutrition. We are also proud 
to  belong  to  a  zone  of  peace,  which  was  declared  at 
the second Summit of Heads of State and Government 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, held in Havana in January 2014. Cuba reiterates 
that  the  rules  of  coexistence  based  on  friendship, 
cooperation  and  respect,  without  interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  other  nations,  are  indispensable  in 
relations among States.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  to  you, 
Madam President, and to the Secretary-General Cuba’s 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  to  the  defence 
of  a  prosperous  and  peaceful  world  for  present  and 
future generations.
Mrs.  Mills  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  thanks  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/73/1),  which  we  commend  for  both 
its quality and contents. It provides useful summaries 
and  data,  as  well  as  insightful  information  on  the 
achievements of the United Nations over the past year. 
We appreciate its level of detail, and we wish to take 
this  opportunity  to  highlight  some  points  that  are  of 
particular interest to us.
First,  we  find  the  report  to  be  particularly  useful 
given its cross-cutting focus on several key issues, most 
notably the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As 
we look to the 2019 high-level review by the General 
Assembly  of  the  implementation  of  the  SDGs  and 
continue  to  share  national  experiences  through  the 
voluntary national reviews, it is imperative that we pay 
greater attention to the interlinkages across the work of 
the Organization. Those systemic connections support 
the  implementation  of  the  SDGs,  promote  sustained 
economic  growth  and  policy  coherence,  and  advance 
our  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development.  As 
the  mobilization  of  financing  for  the  SDGs  will  be 
at  the  core  of  ensuring  the  success  of  our  collective 
endeavour, we laud the establishment of the Joint Fund 
18-30208
3/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
will continue to support, including through the Group of 
Friends of SDG Financing, efforts aimed at advancing 
that objective.
Secondly,  it  is  commendable  that  the  report 
highlights  the  particular  challenges  associated  with 
climate  change.  We  share  the  Secretary-General’s 
frank  but  grim  assessment  that  climate  change  is 
moving  faster  than  we  are  and  that  countries  need  to 
turn pledges into national climate action. We join him 
in  his  quest  to  ensure  that  climate  change  remains  at 
the forefront of our deliberations, with the convening in 
2019 of a special summit on climate change.
Thirdly, we are pleased to hear of the progress that 
the Secretary-General has made in addressing gender 
equality across the United Nations system. This bodes 
well  for  the  Organization  and  we  recommend  even 
greater efforts in that regard.
Fourthly, my delegation has paid keen attention to 
the  section  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  devoted 
to the maintenance of international peace and security. 
The  report  cites  some  pointed  and  tangible  results  of 
which  the  Organization  can  be  proud,  most  notably 
related  to  the  successful  conclusions  of  the  United 
Nations  Operation  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  the  United 
Nations Mission in Liberia, as well as the transition to 
the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti. 
Like  the  Secretary-General,  however,  we  share  the 
concern that despite successes, peacekeeping missions 
are  operating  amid  worsening  security  conditions 
and  risks.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  are  especially 
supportive of the Secretary-General’s focus on conflict 
prevention  and  look  forward  to  further  updates  on 
the  tools  being  adapted  to  address  new  types  of 
conflicts, characterized by asymmetric threats within 
complex environments.
to  re-energize 
Fifthly,  we  are  optimistic  about  the  Secretary-
General’s  efforts 
the  disarmament 
discourse.  We  consider  it  both  fitting  and  timely  that 
as an international community we should focus on how 
we can ensure that our actions inspire hope and peace 
rather  than  fuelling  strife  and  discontent.  Jamaica 
therefore stands ready to play its part in supporting the 
Secretary-General’s disarmament agenda.
Sixthly,  and  particularly  in  view  of  the  link  this 
represents  to  the  illicit  proliferation  of  small  arms 
and  light  weapons,  my  delegation  will  continue  to 
be  engaged  in  the  discussions  on  drug  control  and 
crime  prevention,  as  evidenced  by  our  active  interest 
in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Commission  on 
Narcotic Drugs.
Finally,  we  had  hoped  that  as  it  did  last  year,  the 
report would make a specific reference to the challenges 
facing  middle-income  countries.  It  is  our  expectation 
that  this  will  be  seriously  addressed  in  the  high-level 
meeting  on  middle-income  countries  scheduled  to  be 
held at United Nations Headquarters in early December.
As  we  look  forward  to  another  year  of  work,  we 
take comfort in our achievements to date, but we will 
not rest on our laurels in terms of what still needs to 
be  done.  We  owe  it  not  only  to  ourselves  but  to  the 
countless  peoples  around  the  world  who  continue  to 
look  to  the  United  Nations  for  support  and  hope.  We 
cannot afford to let them down.
Mr.  Rybakov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  We 
have  studied  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
the  activities  of  the  Organization  (A/73/1),  and  we 
are  pleased  to  see  that  a  tremendous  amount  of  work 
has  been  undertaken  during  the  reporting  period  to 
make  the  United  Nations  more  fit  for  purpose.  We 
support  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  expand 
the  Organization’s  mediation  capacities  and  promote 
preventive action.
We agree that there have been some successes, but 
there  is  still  a  significant  number  of  crises  that  have 
proved resistant to settlement. We consider one initiative 
of President Alyaksandr Lukashenko of Belarus to be 
extremely relevant in that regard. The proposal is that 
the world needs a new, major international dialogue on 
security  issues,  which  could  help  all  of  us  overcome 
the  deep  crisis  of  distrust  that  exists  in  international 
relations  and  could  help 
to  achieve  sustainable 
development. 
Today  we  are  all  working  on  our  ambitious  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  but  no  State 
can  possibly  succeed  in  attaining  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  alone.  Today  partnership 
and  global  collaboration  are  increasingly  important. 
In that connection, we need strong partnership ties at 
every level, while the measures we take must be able 
to rely on consistent and long-term funding, including 
through  international  cooperation.  Belarus  is  willing 
to  share  its  experience  in  achieving  the  SDGs,  which 
is  why  we  took  the  initiative  to  form  a  partnership 
network  of  national  SDG  coordinators  in  the  United 
Nations, which was backed by States and international 
4/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
organizations  during  the  Regional  SDG  Coordination 
Leaders  Forum,  held  in  Minsk  in  February.  The 
network will help us to establish full-fledged contacts 
with the various State entities that are involved in the 
achievement  of  the  SDGs  and  to  share  best  practices 
and experiences. We hope that the high-level forum on 
sustainable development, to be held in 2019 under the 
auspices of the General Assembly, will give impetus to 
the launch of this initiative.
the  process  of 
remains  outside 
An  entire  group  of  States,  the  middle-income 
countries, 
the 
coordination  of  assistance,  and  unfortunately  their 
cooperation is essentially conducted on an ad hoc basis. 
Regrettably,  the  Secretary-General’s  report  does  not 
give the topic the attention it deserves. We are pinning 
our  hopes  on  the  high-level  meeting  on  the  issue  of 
middle-income  countries  to  be  held  in  the  General 
Assembly on 4 December. We believe that the decision 
to convene represents a breakthrough in the promotion 
of the interests of this category of countries within the 
United Nations, and we hope that it will contribute to 
the development of a comprehensive, long-term strategy 
in  the  United  Nations  system  for  middle-income 
countries.  It  will  be  impossible  to  achieve  the  2030 
Agenda  without  taking  their  interests  into  account. 
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  appointment 
as  Chief  Economist  of  the  Department  of  Economic 
and Social Affairs of Mr. Eliot Harris, who will be in 
charge of issues related to middle-income countries at 
the United Nations. We hope his professional assistance 
will advance the middle-income-country strategy at the 
United Nations.
We  also  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
efforts  to  counter  the  global  threat  of  terrorism.  We 
welcomed  the  High-level  Conference  of  Heads  of 
Counter-Terrorism  Agencies  of  Member  States,  held 
in New York in June at the initiative of the Secretary-
General. In our view, holding such a conference every 
two years would enable the United Nations to effectively 
define and respond to new challenges associated with 
the changing face of terrorism. Belarus is contributing 
to the fight against that global evil, and quite literally 
tomorrow, together with the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  Minsk  will  be  hosting  a 
high-level  international  conference  on  preventing  and 
combating terrorism in the digital age, in which Under-
Secretary-General Vladimir Voronkov is participating. 
Member States should pay greater attention to preventing 
terrorists  from  using  information  and  communication 
technologies  for  radicalization  and  recruitment,  and 
that issue will be a focus of the conference.
industry, 
such  new 
industries 
Owing  to  the  rapid  development  of  the  digital 
technology 
as 
robotization, artificial intelligence and bioengineering 
are opening up tremendous opportunities and giving a 
strong  impetus  to  sustainable  development.  However, 
they also carry risks, such as the potential to undermine 
the  functioning  of  labour  markets  or  to  be  used  for 
criminal  purposes.  Despite  those  risks,  however,  we 
should recognize that we have entered an era of major 
dependence on the benefits that our recent technological 
advances can bring, and there is already no possibility 
that we can abandon them. We believe that it is therefore 
essential to increase our peoples’ technological literacy 
and  adapt  professions  to  the  rapidly  changing  world 
of  information.  In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to 
highlight  Belarus’s  proposal  to  the  United  Nations 
on  establishing  international  cooperation  in  the  areas 
of  digitization  and  technological  forecasting  for  the 
purposes of sustainable development. We look forward 
eagerly to the report of the High-level Panel on Digital 
Cooperation 
the  Secretary-General, 
and  hope  that  the  Panel  will  take  Belarus’s  proposal 
into consideration.
initiated  by 
We  also  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  work 
on repositioning our Organization, the United Nations. 
His  reform  initiatives  have  been  broadly  supported 
by  Member  States.  However,  the  efforts  to  reposition 
the  United  Nations  development  system  have  clearly 
exposed  the  Achilles  heel  inherent  in  any  large 
bureaucratic  machine,  including  the  United  Nations, 
which  is  that  to  a  certain  degree  its  decisions  can  be 
divorced  from  people’s  real  lives.  We  believe  firmly 
that the litmus test for assessing any initiative should 
be  the  achievement  of  real,  tangible  improvements 
through  its  implementation  on  the  ground.  We  want 
to  see  a  renewed  United  Nations  development  system 
capable  of  giving  more  effective,  targeted  support  to 
countries in their efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda. 
In that connection, we hope that the reorganization of 
the development system will result in effective United 
Nations  country  teams  that  can  assist  States  with 
sustainable development.
Despite  some  progress  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
reform initiatives aimed at addressing the Organization’s 
crisis  with  regard  to  the  prevention  of  international 
conflicts, there is still a great deal to be done in order 
to reach the goals he has outlined in that area. But the 
18-30208
5/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
main  thing  is  that  reform  should  not  be  used  to  hide 
attempts to replace the genuine peacebuilding aims of 
United Nations missions — which are supporting law 
and  order,  neutrality  and  non-interference  in  internal 
affairs — with tasks related to the political settlement 
of conflicts, since we believe that is the prerogative of 
States. 
The procedural side of the reforms of our peace and 
security  structure  is  no  less  important.  It  is  essential 
that  we  all  obtain  guarantees  that  the  process  of  the 
internal  reconfiguration  of  the  Secretariat  will  be 
transparent  and  inclusive,  and  that  it  will  not  permit 
the  redistribution  of  funding  sources,  which  creates 
an  excessive  burden  on  Member  States,  or  blur  the 
mandates of the key United Nations organs. 
We  also  fully  support  the  Secretary-General’s 
recently announced Action for Peacekeeping initiative, 
together with the Declaration of Shared Commitments 
on  United  Nations  Peacekeeping  Operations,  but 
we  call  for  a  considered,  balanced  interpretation 
and  consequent  implementation  of  a  number  of  its 
provisions,  particularly  those  on  issues  not  directly 
related to peacekeeping, such as the protection of human 
rights, the involvement of civil society in peacekeeping 
activities and others.
The reporting year is coming to a close, but some 
important  events  of  historic  significance  are  still  to 
come,  in  particular  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  In  our  view, 
the various initiatives marking the date should preserve 
the Declaration’s true foundation so as not to substitute 
political  provocations  and  major  Powers’  efforts  to 
realize  their  economic  ambitions  for  genuine  human 
rights.  The  unfortunate  and  needy  should  not  simply 
become objects to be manipulated.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  touch  on  a 
seemingly technical issue but one that we nonetheless 
believe  has  serious  significance  for  ensuring  general 
trust in the United Nations hierarchy. Belarus continues 
to advocate for the importance of complying with the 
format  for  considering  agenda  items  in  the  General 
Assembly.  We  believe  that  today’s  agenda  item  is 
central  to  the  activities  of  the  Organization  and  the 
Secretary-General. In that connection, we hope that next 
year, despite our argument that this practice has been 
going on for years, the Secretary-General will submit 
his report to us under the agenda item “Report of the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization”, 
and  that  his  statement  at  the  opening  of  the  general 
debate  of  the  Assembly’s  next  session  will  be  on  the 
theme for the session designated by the President of the 
Assembly, as the corresponding agenda item, “General 
debate”, requires.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  express  our 
agreement with the Secretary-General that today there 
are  no  alternatives  to  multilateralism  in  the  United 
Nations. In that connection, we must see to it that the 
United  Nations  is  truly  an  organization  where  every 
voice matters.
Mr. Gafoor (Singapore): I thank Secretary-General 
António Guterres for his comprehensive report on the 
work  of  the  Organization  (A/73/1),  and  I  would  also 
like to take this opportunity to congratulate him on his 
excellent  statement  at  the  beginning  of  the  high-level 
general debate (see A/73/PV.6). Today I would like to 
touch on several points concerning his report.
First,  we  note  that  it  begins  with  the  assessment 
that  “[a]s  today’s  problems  grow  ever  more  global, 
multilateralism  is  more  important  than  ever”.  I  have 
to  say  that  Singapore  agrees  wholeheartedly  with  the 
Secretary-General’s assessment. We are concerned about 
the  growing  retreat  from  multilateralism,  especially 
in a context where no nation can solve transboundary 
problems  single-handedly.  We  also  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General’s statement in the general debate in 
which he said that the world was suffering from a bad 
case of trust deficit disorder. We clearly need to rebuild 
trust among nations, especially among the major world 
Powers.  In  particular,  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  have  a  special  responsibility  to 
work  together  and  build  consensus,  especially  in  the 
context  of  their  work  in  the  Council.  We  also  call  on 
the  major  Powers  to  avoid  selective  multilateralism, 
or multilateralism à la carte. In other words, the major 
Powers  cannot  support  multilateralism  when  it  suits 
their objectives and choose to abandon it when it does 
not. That is selective multilateralism and it is not what 
we need.
For a small country like Singapore, the multilateral 
rules-based system is fundamental to its survival and 
existence.  Small  countries  do  not  have  the  luxury  of 
pursuing selective multilateralism. We are completely 
committed  to  upholding  the  rules-based  multilateral 
system, because it ensures our survival as small States. 
We have therefore been very encouraged by the strong 
and  consistent  support  expressed  during  the  general 
6/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
debate  by  almost  every  country  and  every  leader 
from  this  very  rostrum  in  support  of  multilateralism, 
the  rules-based  system  and  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations. As the ultimate bastion of multilateralism, the 
United  Nations  remains  indispensable  to  addressing 
the 
the 
international community.
transboundary 
complex 
issues 
facing 
The  second  point  that  I  want  to  make  is  that  we 
deeply  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  energetic 
efforts to reform the United Nations. To keep the United 
Nations  continually  relevant,  it  has  to  become  more 
nimble.  In  fact,  the  very  process  of  reform  should  be 
conducted nimbly and efficiently. The worst thing we 
can do is to introduce more bureaucracy and complexity 
in the name of reform and efficiency. That is not what 
the  United  Nations  needs.  Even  as  the  Secretary-
General’s reforms proceed in earnest, there should be 
opportunities  for  improvement,  course  correction  or 
calibration as the reforms are implemented. That would 
entail  and  require  regular  reporting,  consultation  and 
briefings  by  the  Secretary-General  and  his  team  in 
the  Secretariat.  Ultimately,  the  underlying  objective 
of reform should be to make the United Nations more 
effective, accountable and responsive to the needs of all 
Member States and all people worldwide.
Thirdly,  Singapore  welcomes 
the  Secretary-
General’s focus on technology and frontier issues. We 
support  the  establishment  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
High-level Panel on Digital Cooperation. In our view, 
technology  is  crucial  to  the  realization  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  and  we  must 
redouble our efforts to reap the benefits of technology. 
At the same time, it is essential that we strengthen our 
defences so as to protect societies from the risks posed 
by technology, such as cyberattacks and cybercrime.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  can  and  must 
play  a  critical  role  in  broadening  consensus  on  the 
norms  of  responsible  State  behaviour  in  cyberspace. 
We  are  pleased  that  the  Secretary-General’s  agenda 
for disarmament affirms his commitment to fostering 
a culture of accountability and adherence to emerging 
norms,  rules  and  principles  on  responsible  behaviour 
in  cyberspace.  Singapore  strongly  supports  continued 
work on cybersecurity at the United Nations, including 
the  reconvening  of  the  United  Nations  Group  of 
Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of 
Information and Telecommunications in the Context of 
International Security.
Finally, Singapore notes that the Secretary-General 
has  consistently  emphasized  the  growing  need  to 
strengthen  partnerships  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  organizations.  The  work  of  regional 
organizations  is  of  paramount  importance,  not  least 
because  they  provide  valuable  perspectives  on  the 
particular  context  of  their  region.  We  welcome  the 
interactive  dialogue  session  between  the  Secretary-
General  and  heads  of  regional  organizations  as  a 
concrete  means  of  promoting  understanding  of  each 
region’s unique circumstances.
As this year’s Chair of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), Singapore was pleased to chair 
the annual ASEAN Foreign Ministers meeting with the 
Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly just two weeks ago. The meeting was a very 
useful  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  the  wide-ranging 
cooperation between ASEAN and the United Nations, 
as well as to chart the way forward in areas of potential 
future collaboration, including emerging issues such as 
cybersecurity. Let me conclude with two suggestions.
First, we propose that future reports of the Secretary-
General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  contain  a 
concise  list  of  the  Secretary-General’s  priorities  and 
objectives  for  the  coming  year.  We  understand  that 
the  priorities  of  the  United  Nations  may  evolve  over 
the year to keep up with developments  — and indeed 
they  must  evolve  to  ensure  that  we  respond  to  global 
crises promptly. However, we believe that a list of broad 
priorities  will  set  a  clear  tone  and  direction  for  the 
upcoming year and allow Member States to work more 
productively  with  the  Secretary-General.  Moreover, 
effectively  communicating 
the  Secretary-General’s 
priorities  and  objectives  for  the  year  would  also 
facilitate greater transparency and build confidence in 
the work of the United Nations and the Secretariat.
Secondly,  we  note  that  this  year’s  report  was 
presented  by  the  Secretary-General  on  25  September, 
right at the start of the general debate nearly two weeks 
ago  (see  A/73/PV.6).  During  the  high-level  week,  we 
heard  the  views  of  many  leaders  on  multilateralism 
and  on  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  Therefore, 
we are not sure whether it is truly productive to have 
another formal debate like today’s, especially so soon 
after the high-level week. It seems to me that everyone, 
including the Secretary-General, is treating the debate 
on the report of the work of the Organization as a ritual 
and formality to tick off boxes.
18-30208
7/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  we  should 
carefully consider how we can improve the quality of 
this debate, including by shifting its timing. The debate 
could serve as an important platform for the Secretary-
General to communicate priorities and proposals or to 
provide an interim progress update on key initiatives. I 
know that we have always conducted the debate in this 
manner, but that is not a good reason to continue doing 
so as if it were a ritual. We would therefore suggest that 
the Secretary-General consider convening an informal 
dialogue  with  Member  States  so  as  to  allow  them  to 
have  an  interactive  discussion  with  the  Secretary-
General himself and with each other. That would be in 
addition to the formal ritual of the debate we are having 
today,  which,  judging  by  the  speakers’  list,  has  not 
attracted too much interest or engagement.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  emphasizing  Singapore’s 
support  for  the  Secretary-General.  We  look  forward 
to continuing to work constructively with him so that 
collectively,  as  the  United  Nations,  we  can  build  a 
better future for our peoples.
Mr. Said (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I would like to thank the President for opening debate 
on the report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the  Organization  (A/73/1).  My  delegation  also  wishes 
to convey its thanks and gratitude to Secretary-General 
António Guterres for his valuable report. We appreciate 
his tireless efforts and serious determination, reflected 
therein, to reform the United Nations, its structures and 
its  management,  and  to  strengthen  the  Organization’s 
role  in  the  areas  of  international  peace  and  security 
and  sustainable  development  in  a  manner  that  is 
commensurate  with  the  changes  and  challenges  it 
is facing.
We  welcome  the  references  in  the  report  to  the 
challenges  faced  by  the  United  Nations,  including 
those  related  to  fulfilling  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  climate  change,  equality 
and transparency in the Organization, United Nations 
reform,  multilateralism  and 
the  culture  of  early 
prevention.  We  emphasize  the  role  of  Member  States 
in achieving those objectives, keeping in mind that the 
United Nations is an international organization whose 
States Members are the decision-makers.
United Nations: peace and security, human rights and 
development.  We  believe  that  those  objectives  and 
purposes need to be unified and coordinated, as their 
achievement will benefit all of humankind.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  report’s  reference  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
We  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  aimed 
at making the special political missions work flexibly 
and  multifunctionally  so  that  they  and  their  partners 
can  ensure  the  achievement  of  sustainable  peace. 
Accordingly, we highly appreciate the ongoing efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  Support  Mission  in  Libya 
(UNSMIL)  to  bring  together  the  different  Libyan 
factions  and  find  solutions  to  my  country’s  many 
difficulties and problems. We look forward to the full 
return of UNSMIL to Libya in 2019.
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  more  active  and 
direct  role  in  solving  the  Libyan  crisis,  including  in 
terms of the security situation, which has caused great 
suffering.  That  is  no  secret  to  anyone.  Solving  the 
security problem must be a priority, as should solving 
the political conflicts in the country. Indeed, any proper 
diagnosis  of  the  Libyan  situation  cannot  separate  the 
political and security tracks. 
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/73/1).  The  report 
offers  a  holistic  overview  of  the  complex  and  fraught 
global  landscape.  It  also  makes  a  compelling  case 
for  collective  action  to  effectively  address  those 
challenges.  From  the  goal  of  achieving  inclusive 
and  sustainable  development,  as  set  out  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, to addressing the 
existential threat posed by climate change to lives and 
livelihoods, and from the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security  to  upholding  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms, international cooperation is not 
just needed — it is an imperative of the interconnected 
world  in  which  we  live.  The  United  Nations  remains 
indispensable for that. A vibrant and functional United 
Nations  is  also  the  best  bulwark  against  the  rising 
tide  of  populism,  protectionism  and  unilateralism, 
threatening  to  unravel  the  very  foundations  of  the 
international order.
We  support  collective  action  aimed  at  promoting 
respect  for  human  rights,  improving  living  standards 
and  respecting  the  rules  of  international  law  with 
a  view  to  achieving  the  three  primary  pillars  of  the 
For the United Nations to remain fit for purpose, it 
must keep pace with the rapid pace of change surrounding 
it  —  an  Organization  that  works  in  consonance  with 
its  environment,  not  out  of  tune  with  it.  To  that  end, 
8/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
Pakistan welcomes the Secretary-General’s initiative to 
revitalize the United Nations capabilities with regard to 
the peace and security, development and management 
sectors.  We  are  confident  that  those  measures  will 
ensure  that  issues  of  overlap  and  fragmentation  are 
addressed,  service  delivery  standards  are  enhanced 
and a more holistic and integrated approach to conflict 
prevention  and  sustaining  peace  is  adopted.  In  short, 
the Organization will endeavour to become more than 
the sum of its constituent parts. At its core, the effort 
is meant to transform the United Nations into a more 
effective, transparent, accountable and efficient body.
Those ideals have also guided Pakistan and other 
like-minded  States  in  advocating  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  to  become  a  Council 
that is not only consistent with the democratic spirit of 
our time but also representative of the aspirations of all 
Member States — small, medium and large. Anything 
less would be regression, not reform — an outcome that 
we do not seek and are not prepared to support.
The  quests  for  peace,  inclusive  development  and 
human  rights  are  intrinsically  linked  and  mutually 
reinforcing.  They  cannot  be  compartmentalized  or 
pursued in isolation. As the Secretary-General’s report 
affirms,  our  collective  pursuit  of  those  objectives 
remains  far  from  accomplished.  Instability  continues 
to  afflict  many  parts  of  the  globe  at  a  time  when  old 
divisions  have  been  compounded  and  new  conflicts 
have emerged.
On  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the inalienable right to 
freedom  and  dignity  remains  elusive  for  millions  of 
people across the world. As the international community 
traverses  the  ambitious  pathway  of  the  2030  Agenda, 
there are already troubling signs that progress has not 
been rapid enough.
that 
to  action.  We  must  ensure 
It  is  time  to  arrest  the  slide;  it  is  time  to  put 
the 
our  words 
prevention-focused  agenda  of  the  Secretary-General 
is not merely aspirational but also firmly embedded as 
the cornerstone of global peace and security. We must 
ensure  that  the  United  Nations  development  system 
support  is  fully  aligned  with  national  priorities  and 
policies on poverty eradication, economic growth and 
sustainable  development  so  that  no  one  is  left  behind 
in  our  pursuit  to  fight  poverty,  hunger  and  lack  of 
opportunity.  We  must  ensure  that  the  fundamental 
human rights of all individuals are respected, without 
selectivity or bias.
Pakistan  considers 
the  establishment  of 
Through  enhanced  triangular  cooperation,  we 
must also ensure that peacekeeping, the United Nations 
flagship  and  arguably  its  most  successful  enterprise, 
retains  its  pivotal  role  in  bringing  hope  to  the  lives 
of countless millions affected by conflict. As a major 
contributor to United Nations peacekeeping, it is both 
gratifying and humbling to note that the commitment 
of Pakistani peacekeepers contributed to the successful 
completion  of  peace  missions  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  in 
Liberia.  As  part  of  our  abiding  commitment  to  that 
cause, Pakistan was also the first country to endorse the 
Secretary-General’s Action for Peacekeeping initiative.
the 
Secretary-General’s  High-level  Advisory  Board  on 
Mediation  as  a  welcome  step.  It  rightfully  accords 
centrality  to  an  often  neglected  but  central  postulate 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  the  pacific 
settlement  of  disputes  under  Chapter  VI.  The  Jammu 
and Kashmir dispute remains among the oldest issues 
on the agenda of the Security Council. It was also one 
of the earliest applications of Chapter VI of the Charter.
Through several resolutions, the Security Council 
has  provided  the  Kashmiris  their  inalienable  right 
to  self-determination  through  a  free  and  impartial 
plebiscite.  Regrettably, 
remain 
unimplemented.  Meanwhile,  the  Indian  occupation 
continues to commit, with impunity, gross violations of 
the fundamental human rights of the Kashmiri people.
Those  excesses  were  documented  in  detail  in  the 
14 June report of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Human Rights, which sets out a litany of systematic 
violations  of  fundamental  human  rights  of  the  people 
in  occupied  Kashmir  and  Jammu.  While  Pakistan 
seeks  a  negotiated  settlement  of  all  issues,  including 
the  Kashmir  dispute,  India  declines  to  even  enter 
into  negotiations  with  my  country.  The  international 
community must take concrete and meaningful action 
to alleviate the suffering of the Kashmiri people. As a 
party  to  the  Kashmir  dispute,  the  United  Nations  has 
long-standing obligations in that regard.
those 
resolutions 
Pakistan  has  been  on  the  front  lines  in  the  fight 
against terrorism. Our military campaign — the largest 
counter-terrorism  campaign  in  the  world,  involving 
over  200,000  troops  —  has  crushed  and  eliminated 
terrorist  groups  from  our  territory.  We  have  paid  a 
heavy price; tens of thousands of civilians and soldiers 
18-30208
9/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
have been martyred and many more have been injured. 
But our commitment to that fight, based on our national 
resolve, is firm and unwavering.
Terrorism  is  now  a  global  phenomenon  that  must 
be  addressed  comprehensively  and  in  all  its  forms, 
including  State  terrorism.  It  is  equally  important  to 
address its underlying or root causes. As the Secretary-
General reminded us recently: 
“No  one  is  born  a  terrorist,  and  nothing 
justifies terrorism, but ... factors such as prolonged 
unresolved  conflicts,  lack  of  the  rule  of  law  and 
socioeconomic marginalization can all play a role 
in transforming grievances into destructive action.”
Let  me  conclude  by  quoting  one  of  the  greatest 
United  Nations  figures,  Dag  Hammarskjöld,  who 
famously  said:  “We  are  not  permitted  to  choose  the 
frame of our destiny, but what we put into it is ours.” Our 
destiny is inevitably tied to a rules-based international 
order and rules-based multilateralism, with the United 
Nations at its core.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoken  in 
Spanish): I would first of all like to say that I fully agree 
with what my colleague the Permanent Representative 
of  Singapore  said  from  this  rostrum  with  regard  to 
the  usefulness  of  this  discussion.  We  note  with  some 
disappointment  the  absence  of  senior  officials  of  the 
Secretariat  at  this  debate  on  the  annual  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization. 
We believe that this debate should be one of the most 
substantive and reflective of the entire session. As was 
pointed out, and we fully agree, we should either make 
better use of it or simply remove it from the schedule.
However,  on  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  begin 
by  emphasizing  the  fact  that  no  country  in  the  world 
can deal with the global challenges alone. We therefore 
reiterate  that  a  multilateral  system,  with  the  United 
Nations  at  its  core,  is  a  key  element  in  continuing  to 
build a global consensus for the benefit of all. In that 
regard,  I  would  like  to  highlight  nine  elements  from 
my  country’s  point  of  view  related  to  the  content  of 
the report.
First,  with  regard  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  at  the  international 
level unfortunately there is already a trend that indicates 
that the goal of eradicating poverty in all its dimensions 
by  2030  cannot  be  reached  unless  specific  measures 
are taken immediately. At the national level, we firmly 
believe that the future national council for sustainable 
development in my country will be key to ensuring the 
governance of the implementation process of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development in the long term, 
that is to say, beyond political changes and the focuses 
of future Governments.
We  agree  with  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/73/1)  that  the  voluntary  national  reviews 
presented  at  the  high-level  political  forum  are  an 
effective  means  to  exchange  lessons  and  experiences 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Goals  and,  even  more 
important,  processes  that  lead  to  internal  discussions 
and evaluations on the implementation of the Agenda 
on the ground, which is where it matters. In that regard, 
I would like to highlight that my country will present 
its  second  voluntary  national  review  in  2019,  and  we 
would like to thank the President of the Economic and 
Social Council for accommodating the high number of 
requests received in that regard.
Second,  we  wish  to  acknowledge  and  commend 
the  work  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  team  in 
promoting  the  repositioning  of  the  United  Nations 
system  to  ensure  that  the  country  teams  are  prepared 
to  support  our  national  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda.  The  negotiation  process  that  was  concluded 
this year is only a first phase. As a country that believes 
that it can improve the coordination and effectiveness 
of the system on the ground, El Salvador will continue 
to  participate  to  ensure  that  we  have  effective  and 
complementary  country  teams,  where  the  regional 
dimension  is  strengthened  and  where  we  as  States 
rightly  have  leadership  of  our  national  development 
policies and in determining the support that we receive 
from the system. We thank Ms. Amina Mohammed and 
her  team  for  their  commitment  and  interest,  and  we 
look forward to the prompt implementation of the new 
resident coordinator system.
Third, with regard to climate change, it is undeniable 
that the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development 
Goals cannot be achieved without taking into account its 
impact and the urgent need for disaster risk reduction, 
both of which are very important issues in my country 
and  in  the  Central  American  region.  In  that  regard, 
with  a  view  to  providing  a  framework  to  support  the 
commitments  already  made  at  the  international  level, 
and in line with paragraphs 13, 29 and 52 of the report, 
El  Salvador  proposes  that  we  declare  2021-2030  the 
United  Nations  decade  of  ecosystem  restoration.  We 
call  on  all  Members  of  the  Organization  to  support 
10/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
that initiative. We also wish to emphasize the need for 
United Nations Headquarters to make a greater effort to 
incorporate and mainstream the Programme of Action 
for  the  Implementation  of  the  Sendai  Framework  for 
Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-2030  in  Africa  into 
our work in the area of sustainable development. It is 
not possible for the significant work carried out from 
Geneva  in  that  area,  with  the  considerable  support  of 
the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction, 
not to be reflected as it should be in our policy agendas 
in New York.
Fourth, we believe that it is important to mention 
paragraph 32 of the report, on graduation from the least 
developed  country  category.  However,  it  is  necessary 
to  recall  that,  according  to  the  report,  a  significant 
increase in the total number of least developed country 
graduates should lead to greater reflection on the support 
that continues to be necessary. The United Nations and 
the  international  community  must  recognize  not  only 
the  contributions  but  also  the  specific  challenges  of 
the  so-called  middle-income  countries,  and  we  hope 
that  the  United  Nations  will  assume  its  due  role  in 
implementing  an  index  that  measures  development 
based on multidimensional criteria that go beyond the 
per  capita  income  used  by  the  World  Bank.  Concepts 
such  as  multidimensional  poverty  and  gradual 
development are terms that the United Nations should 
already include in its vocabulary, in line with the new 
development  paradigm  that  we  adopted  in  2015.  We 
recognize  the  pioneering  role  of  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme in making breakthroughs in 
that area, and we call on the other agencies and bodies 
of the system to follow that example.
Fifth, with respect to the issue of human mobility, 
my country welcomes the prompt adoption of the global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, as well 
as the global compact on refugees, as clear examples of 
the United Nations reaching new global agreements on 
issues of interest to all and as two of the most important 
sustained  processes  this  year.  We  already  anticipate 
the success of the meeting in Marrakech in December, 
and we urge all countries to recognize that the topic of 
migration, like many others, is a global and fundamental 
issue  relating  to  the  human  condition  and  narrative, 
which therefore requires a global understanding.
Sixth, in terms of the commitment to strengthening 
mediation,  prevention  and  sustainable  peace,  we 
emphasize  our  support  for  the  Secretary-General’s 
vision  of  repositioning  prevention  as  the  focus  of 
action  and  alignment  of  the  three  pillars  of  work.  As 
a  country  that  has  enjoyed  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  in  bringing  an  end  to  our  armed  conflict, 
establishing our democratic institutions and, currently, 
fostering dialogue among political actors, El Salvador 
knows  first-hand  that  the  promotion  of  human  rights, 
the building of democracy and the pursuit of inclusive 
sustainable  development  contribute 
to  sustainable 
peace  and  the  ongoing  prevention  of  conflicts.  The 
role  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  part  of  that 
process. However, that concept should permeate efforts 
across all pillars of the Organization.
Seventh, with regard to disarmament, we share the 
vision in paragraph 122 of the report on the situation of 
the  Conference  on  Disarmament.  El  Salvador  regrets 
that  the  Conference,  the  only  supposed  multilateral 
negotiating body in that area, has not been able to fulfil 
its mandate in more than two decades, and we reiterate 
that, as has already been the case on several occasions, 
it is incumbent on the General Assembly to take over 
the  issue  when  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  is 
unable  to  fulfil  its  function.  We  emphasize,  as  does 
the  report,  the  role  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  as  a  new  element  in  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament  regime.  However, 
it is also necessary to recall the important role of the 
United Nations in the limitation and regulation of small 
arms and light weapons. We highlight the achievements 
of the United Nations Conference to Review Progress 
Made  in  the  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  to  Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit 
Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its 
Aspects, which for the first time included the issue of 
ammunition, without which the Programme of Action 
lacked real impact.
Eighth,  regarding  the  humanitarian  aspect,  we 
recall  that  neither  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs nor the system as a whole should 
neglect the impacts and humanitarian assistance in the 
case of natural disasters, including over the longer term. 
At the same time, we recall the need for the Secretariat 
and the entire system to heed the lessons learned at the 
2016 World Humanitarian Summit, which, although it 
was not mandated intergovernmentally, scrutinized bad 
practices and lessons that must be implemented. We also 
reiterate that respect for international humanitarian law 
must be constant and cross-cutting in the Organization 
and its organs.
18-30208
11/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
Ninth  and  finally,  having  held  the  presidency  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  in  2017,  my  country  can 
only  emphasize  the  work  of  the  Organization  in  that 
area and again welcome Ms. Michelle Bachelet as the 
new High Commissioner. For the better functioning of 
that pillar, States must recognize and reduce the high 
level of duplication between the Council and the Third 
Committee,  whereby  each  body  should  focus  on  its 
comparative advantages.
We  emphasize 
that  cooperation,  constructive 
dialogue  and  the  strengthening  of  the  role  of  the 
Organization  are  crucial  to  addressing  the  current 
common  challenges.  My  country’s  support  can  be 
counted  on  in  all  efforts  made  towards  the  good 
functioning of the United Nations.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): The delegation of my country, Syria, took note 
of the report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the Organization (A/73/1). We welcome in principle the 
information contained in the report with regard to the 
challenges  facing  our  Organization  and  the  proposed 
solutions  to  those  challenges,  such  as  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, climate change, 
migration,  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women, transparency, reform of the United Nations and 
multilateralism, among others.
I would like to clarify the position of my country 
in relation to some of the information contained in the 
report.  My  delegation  welcomes  the  report  and  the 
information  it  contains  on  counter-terrorism,  which 
should  help  us  to  achieve  our  goals  and  aspirations 
and  step  up  our  efforts  aimed  at  addressing  the  root 
causes of the recruitment of terrorists and the spread of 
terrorism in general. However, we had hoped that the 
authors of the report, when referring to Da’esh, would 
refer  not  just  to  Iraq  but  also  to  Syria,  because,  as  is 
well  known  by  everybody,  Da’esh  and  other  terrorist 
groups are also present in Syria.
We expected that the war we have fought alongside 
our  allies  against  terrorism  would  be  supported  by 
the  entire  international  community,  in  line  with 
international legitimacy and United Nations resolutions 
on  counter-terrorism.  That  support  should  have  come 
through  the  use  of  the  tools  necessary  to  deter  the 
Governments of States known to do so from supporting, 
funding  and  arming  terrorists  and  sending  them  to 
Syria.  In  that  context,  some  refer  to  those  terrorists 
as the “moderate opposition”, the “armed opposition”, 
“jihadists”,  or  “non-State  groups”,  and  deliberately 
avoid  calling  them  terrorists.  Regrettably,  Syria  has 
been transformed by others into a terrorist destination 
without  borders,  in  the  same  vein  as  such  notorious 
organizations  as  Doctors  without  Borders,  Criminals 
without Borders, Murderers without Borders, and so on. 
What is important to note is that terrorism transcends 
borders, which makes it difficult to control.
fighting 
terrorism 
in 
Syria’s  experience 
in 
cooperation with its allies is worthy of mention in the 
Secretary-General’s  report.  Unfortunately,  however, 
the authors failed to mention it. The authors also failed 
to mention the aggression and foreign presence taking 
place on the territories of certain States Members of the 
United Nations without their consent. The pretexts for 
such behaviour have now been exposed, for example, in 
the alleged possession of weapons of mass destruction 
that,  in  the  end,  never  existed,  the  need  to  protect 
civilians from threats that turn out to be non-existent 
or the intention to establish false democracies in States.
We  had  hoped  that  the  authors  of  the  report 
would  at  the  very  least  have  referred  to  this  foreign 
presence as being an illegal presence, a grave breach of 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations, 
an act of aggression against the State’s sovereignty and 
a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  We  are 
naturally referring in that regard to the illegal military 
presence of the United States on Syrian territories, as 
well as the presence of France, the United Kingdom and 
other States that claim to be part of a coalition that is 
imposing itself on a State Member of the United Nations 
that has not even sought the help of that coalition.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  also  fails  to 
mention the Israeli occupation of Palestine, the Syrian 
Golan and other occupied Arab territories. We had hoped 
that the authors would have used the word “occupation” 
and not the term “Israeli-Palestinian conflict”. Indeed, 
the word “occupation” is the correct and legal United 
Nations term to be used, in accordance with resolutions 
and  documents  of  the  Security  Council,  and  those  of 
the General Assembly, ever since the establishment of 
the  Organization.  All  General  Assembly  resolutions 
speak of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian and Arab 
territories — occupation, not conflict.
My  country’s  Government  once  again  condemns 
the use of weapons of mass destruction. We had hoped 
that the authors of the report would not have overlooked 
the Israeli arsenal of nuclear, biological and chemical 
12/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
weapons,  due,  in  particular,  to  the  fact  that  Israel  is 
the  only  party  that  possesses  nuclear  weapons  in  the 
Middle  East.  It  is  also  the  only  party  that  refuses  to 
join  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons and to submit its facilities to the safeguards 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  Despite 
all  the  Israeli  scandals  that  have  arisen  within  the 
United  Nations,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
fails  to  mention  the  Israeli  arsenal  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction.
The  authors  also  fail  to  mention  the  unilateral 
coercive  measures  imposed  by  the  United  States 
and  the  European  Union,  inter  alia,  on  a  number  of 
Member  States,  including  my  country,  Syria.  We  had 
hoped  that  the  authors  would  have  touched  upon  the 
importance  of  lifting  those  measures,  whose  very 
imposition contravenes the provisions of international 
law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  resolutions  of 
the General Assembly and calls to implement the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  How  can  we 
call  for  achieving  the  development  and  welfare  of  all 
peoples — including the people of Syria — when some 
Member States are imposing sanctions on other Member 
States, thereby contributing to the continued suffering 
of those peoples, in essence leaving them behind?
rejects 
My  delegation  strongly 
the  content 
of  paragraph  112  in  the  report  on  the  so-called 
International,  Impartial  and  Independent  Mechanism 
to  Assist  in  the  Investigation  and  Prosecution  of 
Persons  Responsible  for  the  Most  Serious  Crimes 
under International Law Committed in the Syrian Arab 
Republic since March 2011, which is of course neither 
a mechanism, international, impartial nor independent. 
Our  position  vis-à-vis  the  Mechanism  is  well  known. 
We  reject  the  Mechanism,  which  was  established  by 
virtue of an illegitimate and non-consensual resolution 
full  of  political  and  legal  flaws.  We  have  enumerated 
them  in  detail  in  many  letters,  the  most  recent  of 
which  was  addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  is  contained  in  document  A/72/106, 
wherein  we  stressed  that  our  writing  to  the  President 
of the General Assembly did not constitute recognition 
of  the  Mechanism  or  acceptance  of  the  Mechanism’s 
work or mandate, in view of the fact that the politicized 
and  biased  resolution  71/248,  which  established 
the  Mechanism,  was  put  forward  by  States  with  an 
anti-Syrian agenda. Furthermore, the establishment of 
the  Mechanism  set  a  serious  precedent  in  the  history 
of  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  Assembly  does  not 
have  a  mandate  to  establish  such  a  Mechanism,  as 
everyone  knows.  The  Mechanism  constitutes  flagrant 
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  my  country  by 
certain Member States that have exported terrorism to 
Syria for eight years. As such, it is a serious violation of 
principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, 
particularly  Article  12,  as  well  as  the  provisions  of 
international law.
Does anyone doubt today that there are 100 States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  have  exported 
terrorism  to  my  country?  According  to  a  Security 
Council  report  —  and  not  my  own  words  —  these 
States have done so for eight years. Does anyone believe 
that the actions of those 100 Member States that have 
exported  terrorism  to  my  country  for  eight  years  are 
impartial, independent and objective? I will leave it to 
the Assembly and to the conscience of those present in 
this Hall to answer that.
In  conclusion,  the  Government  of  my  country, 
Syria,  stresses  once  again  that  it  will  make  every 
effort to cooperate with the Secretary-General in terms 
of  respecting  the  Charter,  international  legitimacy 
and  international  law.  We  have  known  and  worked 
with  the  Secretary-General  since  he  was  the  High 
Commissioner for Refugees. Our cooperation produced 
positive  results  at  the  time,  particularly  during  and 
after the joint invasion of Iraq by the United States and 
Britain in 2003. We hope that our cooperation with the 
Secretary-General will continue throughout his tenure 
as Head of the Organization.
Mr. Skoknic Tapia (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Chile 
welcomes  the  presentation  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
report on the work of the Organization (A/73/1), which 
gives us a comprehensive overview of the achievements 
that have been made this year and the challenges that we 
face during the current session. The achievements cited 
in  the  report  represent  the  fundamental  progress  that 
Chile has supported in the various working bodies of 
the Organization. For instance, we would mention the 
historic adoption of the Secretary-General’s ambitious 
reform  agenda  in  the  areas  of  development,  peace 
and security and management. We would mention the 
negotiation of the global compact for safe, orderly and 
regular migration. We would mention the establishment 
of  the  High-level  Advisory  Board  on  Mediation,  the 
progress  made  in  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  and  the  gender 
parity achieved in the Senior Management Group and 
18-30208
13/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
among Resident Coordinators, to name just a few of the 
initiatives in the report.
Each  of  those  examples  should  prompt  us  to 
strengthen our commitment to the work of the United 
Nations  and  to  continuing  to  support  the  Secretary-
General  in  the  implementation  phase  of  the  various 
changes. That is why we join those who have already 
made  statements  in  highlighting  the  relevance  of  this 
item  on  our  agenda  and  the  greater  relevance  that 
it  should  occupy  in  the  debate  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization. Above and beyond the truly fundamental 
impact  of  each  of  the  initiatives  that  I  have  listed, 
Chile  believes  that  the  report  delivered  today  by  the 
Secretary-General  demonstrates  the  importance  of 
the  daily  work  of  our  Organization  and  reminds  us, 
at a time when everything is being questioned, of the 
need  for  and  power  of  change,  which  is  embodied  by 
multilateralism. As the Secretary-General indicates in 
his  report,  global  challenges  require  global  strategies 
today  more  than  ever,  and  in  order  to  achieve  that 
“[w]orking together multilaterally is not optional; it is 
the only answer” (A/73/1, para. 148).
For that reason, allow me to thank the Secretary-
General for his vision on the reform of the Organization 
and the efforts that we all know he has made, together 
with the Deputy Secretary-General and the entire team, 
in supporting and adapting the Organization to face the 
current challenges. The Assembly can rest assured that 
it  can  continue  to  count  on  Chile’s  full  support  in  its 
tireless work towards a better Organization.
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Let 
me  start  by  conveying  my  delegation’s  gratitude  to 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  annual  report  on  the 
work of the Organization (A/73/1). I also wish to take 
this  opportunity  to  express  my  appreciation  for  his 
insightful  statement  delivered  at  the  sixth  meeting  of 
the current session of the General Assembly, which in 
many ways reflected his written report to this body and 
depicted the existing international landscape. We share 
the Secretary-General’s assessment that
“[t]oday, the world order is increasingly chaotic. 
Power relations are less clear and universal values 
are being eroded. Democratic principles are under 
siege  and  the  rule  of  law  is  being  undermined” 
(A/73/PV.6, p. 1)
to  the  extent  that  twenty-first  century  challenges 
outpace twentieth century institutions and mindsets.
Undoubtedly,  the  convening  of  a  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  consider  the  report  on  the  work 
of  the  Organization  provides  us  with  an  unparalleled 
opportunity  to  consider  and  appraise  how  efficiently 
the United Nations is addressing the urgent challenges 
and detecting emerging trends that have a far-reaching 
direct and indirect impact on the lives of people around 
the  world.  We  are  of  the  view  that  one  of  the  major 
challenges and threats is a growing tendency to resort 
to unilateralism. The world today is suffering from the 
disregard  of  some  States  for  international  values  and 
institutions  through  the  trampling  of  global  norms 
and  the  undermining  of  international  organizations. 
It  is  an  illusion  that  confronting  multilateralism  is  a 
sign of strength; in fact, it is a symptom of weakness 
of  intellect,  demonstrating,  as  it  does,  an  inability  to 
understand a complex and interconnected world.
To  be  more  specific,  I  would  like  to  give  some 
salient  and  vivid  examples  of  unilateralism  in  our 
world today. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
(JCPOA)  was  the  outcome  of  more  than  a  decade  of 
diplomatic efforts and a period of intensive negotiations 
to  resolve  an  artificial  crisis.  The  document  was 
unanimously approved by Security Council resolution 
2231 (2015), and thereby codified into an international 
obligation.  According  to  the  resolution,  all  countries 
and  international  and  regional  organizations  were 
called  upon  to  support  the  implementation  of  the 
JCPOA  and  refrain  from  any  actions  that  undermine 
the 
implementation  of  commitments  made  under 
the JCPOA.
According 
to  12  consecutive  reports  of 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  Iran  has  thus 
far complied with all of its commitments. However, a 
certain  State,  which  was  one  of  the  principal  parties 
to  the  negotiations  from  the  outset,  has  not  remained 
faithful to its obligations, resorting to flimsy excuses, 
and,  in  open  violation  of  its  commitments,  finally 
withdrew  from 
the  accord  and  pressured  other 
countries to violate the nuclear agreement, threatening 
all  countries  and  international  organizations  with 
punishment  should  they  comply  with  resolution  2231 
(2015).  Furthermore,  that  country’s  withdrawal  from 
international  organizations,  in  particular  UNESCO 
and the Human Rights Council, and from international 
agreements,  such  as  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change,  together  with  the  imposition  of  unlawful 
unilateral  sanctions  and  the  decision  to  transfer  its 
Embassy  in  Israel  to  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  and  Beit 
14/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
Al-Maqdis,  are  among  samples  of  its  me-first,  self-
centred, arrogant and disastrous policy that flows from 
fanatical unilateralism.
The rising threat of terrorism and violent extremism 
across the globe, in particular in the Middle East, is one 
of the concrete effects of the unilateralism coupled with 
the interventionist, flawed and short-sighted policy of 
a certain Power. Specifically, the struggle to legitimize 
the  occupation  of  Palestinian  land  by  rejecting  the 
historical realities that are the root cause of every crisis 
in the region is gravely undermining peace. The creation 
of  Al-Qaida,  the  unilateral  military  invasions  of  Iraq 
and  Afghanistan,  and  support  for  extremist  terrorist 
groups fighting the Syrian Government using irrational 
justifications — all of which led to the emergence and 
strengthening of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham 
—are  among  the  threats  and  crucial  challenges  that 
must be dealt with urgently through the United Nations 
and other international mechanisms.
Under  such  circumstances,  the  negligence  or 
inefficacy  of  international  institutions  can  endanger 
world peace. We can rise to such daunting challenges 
only through the collective contribution and cooperation 
of States on an equal footing. But there is a prerequisite 
in  that  connection,  namely,  a  pressing  need  for  the 
recognition  of  a  multilateral  world  that  had  already 
come into being more than two decades ago. Although 
that reality on the ground is blatantly and deliberately 
ignored by a certain Power, we all have the right and 
responsibility  to  strengthen  multilateralism  through 
inclusive  multilateral  decision-making  processes, 
which  are  indispensable  to  promoting  and  preserving 
peace  and  security  in  the  world  on  the  basis  of  high 
ethical standards and cooperation.
In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  calls  on 
the 
Secretary-General to organize and convene a high-level 
conference on unilateralism and its devastating effects 
on  worldwide  security,  on  the  fight  against  terrorism 
and  infectious  diseases,  and  on  efforts  to  address 
other  environmental  and  humanitarian  issues.  As  the 
Secretary-General  rightly  points  out  in  his  report, 
terrorism is a worldwide scourge and requires a globally 
coordinated  response.  We  welcome  his  efforts  aimed 
at  convening  the  first-ever  United  Nations  High-level 
Conference of Heads of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of 
Member States to advance multilateral cooperation and 
establish within the Secretariat the Office of Counter-
Terrorism to enhance the United Nations focus on this 
challenge. We hope that initiative continues.
We  call  on  States  to  abide  by  their  commitment 
to  resolution  2231  (2015)  and  respect  international 
instruments and institutions. We warmly welcome the 
continued efforts for the realization of Iran’s proposal 
to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle 
East.  In  fact,  the  security  of  the  region  is  threatened 
by the nuclear weapons of the Israeli regime. We were 
expecting that the report would cite the urgent need for 
Israel’s accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  The  regime  should  place  all  its 
nuclear activities under the comprehensive safeguards 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
We  strongly  support  the  Secretary-General  in 
embarking  upon  wide-ranging  reform  efforts 
to 
strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  Organization  to  meet 
today’s increasingly complex challenges. My delegation 
takes  this  opportunity  to  emphasize  that  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran, as the initiator of the concept of a world 
against violence and extremism and as one of the leading 
opponents of unilateralism, is fully prepared to play an 
active part in promoting and defending multilateralism 
as the appropriate framework for finding a sustainable 
method  to  resolve  existing  challenges  and  provide, 
through  dialogue  and  cooperation,  reliable  means  for 
collective  contribution  and  collaboration  in  favour  of 
securing durable peace around the world.
Mr.  Hattrem  (Norway):  First,  let  me  begin  by 
thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  in  2017  (A/73/1).  We 
congratulate  the  United  Nations  on  its  progress  and 
substantial achievements in 2017.
When  we  established  the  United  Nations,  we 
pledged  to  save  future  generations  from  the  scourge 
of war, work together to promote economic and social 
advancement,  uphold  respect  for  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  all  and  deliver  security, 
jobs, education, health care and a better future for all. 
Today  we  see  the  multilateral  system  under  pressure. 
At  the  same  time,  the  major  challenges  confronting 
us,  such  as  climate  change,  migration,  sustainable 
development  and  clean  oceans,  demand  cooperation 
and common solutions.
The  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
recognize that global challenges are national challenges 
and that they are closely interlinked. The Goals require 
us  to  take  both  national  and  international  action. 
Over the past 73 years, the United Nations has taught 
us  that  we  can  achieve  far  more  by  working  together 
18-30208
15/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
than  by  working  alone.  Together  we  have  achieved 
impressive  results  because  international  cooperation 
works. Extreme poverty is steadily decreasing, people 
live longer, child mortality rates are falling and more 
children  than  ever  attend  school.  Global  political 
cooperation,  a  system  of  global  legal  order  and  a  fair 
global trading system have been crucial to that progress.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with 
its  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  demonstrates 
the unique value of the United Nations. We have agreed 
on  a  universal  development  agenda —  a  road  map  to 
the  world  we  want.  Norway  stands  ready  to  support 
our bilateral, regional and multilateral partners so as to 
accelerate implementation of the SDGs.
For  seven  decades,  Norway  has  consistently 
supported the United Nations in its mission to establish 
a  rules-based  multilateral  order.  We  are  one  of  the 
largest financial contributors to the United Nations. We 
consistently  allocate  1  per  cent  of  our  gross  national 
income  to  development  aid.  There  is  broad  support 
across  the  Norwegian  political  spectrum  for  the 
United Nations and for our engagement in sustainable 
development  and  peace.  Norway  will  continue  to 
be  a  consistent  partner  with  the  United  Nations,  and 
together with the nations of the world we will continue 
to seek common solutions to the challenges that arise 
in our future.
Finally,  we  hail  the  Secretary-General’s  wise 
leadership and appeal to him and his staff to carry on 
with the task to make the Organization better equipped 
to face the common challenges that lie ahead.
Mr.  Favre  (Switzerland)  (spoke 
in  French): 
Switzerland  commends  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres for his report on the work of the Organization 
(A/73/1).  Although  I  hardly  claim  that  I  will  be 
exhaustive in my comments, let me underscore several 
projects  and  themes  that  the  Secretary-General  has 
given priority to over the past 12 months.
First  of  all,  there  are  the  various  calls  for  reform 
mentioned  in  chapter  III  of  the  report,  which  are  the 
logical  culmination  of  the  contents  in  the  preceding 
chapters.  Since  taking  office,  the  Secretary-General 
has  insisted  on  the  fact  that  the  United  Nations  must 
be  able  to  adapt  to  changes  and  renew  itself  to  be 
more  effective.  Switzerland  has  always  supported  his 
ambitious  plans  in  that  regard.  If  the  United  Nations 
is  to  achieve  maximum  results  using  the  means  at 
its  disposal  and  thereby  make  a  real  difference  on 
the  ground,  it  must  adapt  to  a  constantly  changing 
environment  and  continuously  review  its  working 
methods. The past year has enabled the United Nations 
to initiate such processes, both within the Organization 
itself and its Member States. As mentioned in the report 
of  the  Secretary-General,  the  reforms  will  lead  the 
United Nations to become
“more nimble, effective, transparent, accountable, 
efficient,  pragmatic  and  decentralized  to  better 
support  its  normative  and  operational  activities” 
(A/73/1, para. 136).
We welcome that and commend the Secretary-General.
Second,  the  Secretary-General  has  placed  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  at  the  heart  of  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  pages  in  his  report  underscore  the 
importance of achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals  by  the  deadline  set,  identifying  innovative 
financing  models 
to  do  so  and  strengthening 
partnerships  between  the  United  Nations  and  other 
actors  in  the  region,  especially  in  the  private  sector. 
Those are also priorities for Switzerland.
Third,  the  year  was  a  good  one  for  migration. 
Switzerland is mobilizing for the adoption in December 
of  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration, which was first called for by the Secretary-
General  several  years  ago.  We  support  the  objectives 
of  that  comprehensive  framework  to  make  global 
migration safer, more orderly and more regular. We also 
support the adoption of the global compact on refugees, 
a second reference document that was negotiated during 
the previous year.
Fourth,  another  area  that  the  United  Nations 
needed to address — and did so — in 2018 was digital 
governance. In that regard as well, we congratulate the 
Secretary-General on having set up a high-level panel 
dedicated to this matter.
Fifth,  with  regard  to  peace  and  security,  the 
Secretary-General  has  urged  us  to  take  an  integrated 
and  coordinated  approach  to  prevention,  making  it  a 
top  priority.  Switzerland  welcomes  that  approach  and 
will  support  the  Organization’s  efforts  in  the  area  of 
prevention,  including  addressing  past  crimes  and 
preventing atrocities and violent extremism.
Sixth,  in  the  field  of  human  rights,  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  rightly  emphasizes  that  the 
protection of human rights cannot be taken for granted 
16/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
anywhere in the world today. It is essential to support 
the  activities  of  the  Organization  in  promoting  and 
defending  human  rights.  Recalling  the  importance 
of  abolishing  the  death  penalty,  implementing  the 
prohibition  on 
the  rights  of 
women,  children  and  migrants,  strengthening  civil 
actors, protecting those who defend human rights and 
fighting impunity and corruption are also priorities for 
Switzerland.  Moreover,  it  is  important  to  strengthen 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  engage  in  discussions 
in Geneva aimed at improving its working methods.
torture,  respecting 
Seventh, with regard to humanitarian aid, the report 
highlights the number of humanitarian responses carried 
out by various United Nations entities. Sadly, there are 
still far too many and the humanitarian challenges we 
all face are also increasing. The Organization can count 
on  Switzerland’s  continued  support  in  the  provision 
of  humanitarian  aid,  including  protection  for  civilian 
populations,  humanitarian  access 
to  populations 
in  distress  and  protection  for  missions  and  medical 
infrastructure,  as  well  as  respect  for  international 
humanitarian law in general.
Finally,  the  report  stresses  the  importance  of 
promoting a modern management culture at all levels 
of the United Nations. Switzerland aligns itself with the 
steps  taken  in  that  direction  to  increase  transparency 
and  accountability 
the  Organization.  We  are 
committed  to  ensuring  that  the  United  Nations  has 
adequate  funding  so  that  it  can  fulfil  its  mandates. 
Through  our  support  for  Genève  Internationale  as  a 
centre  of  global  governance,  we  are  also  committed 
to  making  greater  use  of  it  to  meet  the  increasingly 
complex global challenges.
in 
In the area of human resources, Switzerland employs 
a  zero-tolerance  policy  on  exploitation  and  sexual 
abuse  in  the  context  of  United  Nations  field  missions 
and  sexual  harassment  in  the  workplace.  Switzerland 
appreciates  the  efforts  that  the  Organization  has 
undertaken in that area, as described towards the end 
of the report.
Switzerland  thanks  the  Secretary-General  and 
congratulates  him  on 
the 
Organization has made throughout his leadership. We 
are also grateful for the statements delivered by other 
speakers  this  morning  on  the  holding  of  this  plenary 
meeting; we share their views.
the  achievements 
that 
Before  concluding,  we  also  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  statement  delivered  at  the 
opening  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third 
session  (see  A/73/PV.6).  It  bodes  well  for  the  coming 
year to be as compelling — if not more so — than the 
year before.
Mr.  Yao  Shaojun  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/73/1).
In  the  face  of  the  current  complex  international 
situation  and  global  challenges,  the  United  Nations 
continues  to  advocate  multilateralism  and  promote 
pragmatic  cooperation.  In  the  areas  of  peace  and 
security,  peacekeeping,  counter-terrorism,  sustainable 
development, the reform of the United Nations system, 
humanitarian  assistance,  refugees  and  migration,  and 
so on, the United Nations has achieved positive results. 
The Secretary-General has proposed and successfully 
implemented  quite  a  number  of  reform  measures 
to  promote  enhanced  performance  at  the  United 
Nations. China appreciates the work undertaken by the 
Secretary-General and the Secretariat.
The world today is undergoing complex and profound 
changes,  experiencing  deep-seated  multipolarization 
and  economic  globalization.  The  fate  of  the  peoples 
of  all  countries  has  never  been  as  closely  connected 
as  it  is  today.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  also  facing 
unprecedented  challenges  that  impact  international 
rules  and  challenge  our  multilateral  mechanisms. 
The  constant  rise  in  protectionism  and  unilateralism, 
intertwining  traditional  and  non-traditional  security 
threats and the omnipresent instability and uncertainty 
of  the  international  situation  are  but  a  few  examples. 
As  for  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the  international  community  should  proceed  from  a 
forward-looking  vision  of  building  a  community  of 
common destiny and promote multilateralism in order 
to jointly address the global challenges before us.
First,  we  should  firmly  uphold  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
maintain a rules-based international order. The Charter 
is the cornerstone of the normal operation of the United 
Nations. Member States should promote the spirit of the 
Charter,  advocate  a  common,  integrated,  cooperative 
and  sustainable  new  security  concept  and  encourage 
the building of a global partnership marked by dialogue 
without  confrontation,  while  partnering  without 
alliances. All countries should abide by the basic norms 
of international law and international relations, remain 
18-30208
17/19
A/73/PV.17 
08/10/2018
committed to mutually agreed international agreements, 
safeguard and uphold the international system and the 
multilateral  trading  system,  with  the  United  Nations 
and  the  World  Trade  Organization  at  their  respective 
cores, and bring positive and stabilizing factors into the 
current international situation.
improve  the  efficiency  of  United  Nations  operations 
by  strengthening  supervision  and  accountability.  All 
countries should fulfil their due obligations under the 
United Nations framework and strengthen dialogue and 
cooperation in promoting the resolution of global and 
regional issues.
Secondly, we should adhere to the notion of win-win 
cooperation,  safeguard  equity  interests  and  promote 
common  development.  The  international  community 
should  adhere  to  the  principle  of  consultation,  joint 
contribution  and  shared  benefits,  while  replacing 
confrontation  with  cooperation  and  coercion  with 
consultation,  pursuing  common  development,  as  well 
as  win-win,  multi-win  and  all-win  results.  We  must 
respect not only each other’s sovereignty, independence 
and  territorial  integrity,  but  also  the  development 
path  chosen  by  each  country,  and  uphold  the  right 
of  all  countries  to  pursue  a  better  life  and  space 
for development.
Developed  countries  should  earnestly  live  up  to 
their  official  development  assistance  commitments 
and  actively  help  developing  countries 
improve 
their  livelihoods  and  accelerate  their  development. 
Developing  countries  should  further  promote  South-
South cooperation and strive to achieve unity and self-
improvement. The United Nations should promote the 
concerted efforts of Member States to fully implement 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Thirdly,  it  is  important  to  continue  to  promote 
multilateralism  and  support  the  United  Nations  in 
playing a central role in multilateral efforts. Secretary-
General  Guterres  states  in  his  report  that  the  current 
situation  and  practice  prove 
to 
multilateralism is the only viable way to deal with the 
various  global  challenges,  with  which  China  agrees. 
Multilateralism requires a strong United Nations, which 
must keep pace with the new developments of our time 
and  further  enhance  its  ability,  through  reforms,  to 
coordinate the efforts of all countries in tackling global 
changes  and  better  responding  to  the  expectations  of 
the international community.
that  adherence 
The Secretary-General’s reforms in the three areas 
of  peace  and  security,  international  development  and 
internal management have provided an opportunity to 
enhance  the  role  of  the  United  Nations.  The  reforms 
should  adhere  to  the  principle  of  leadership  by  the 
Member  States,  with  specific  importance  attached  to 
the  concerns  of  developing  countries,  and  attempt  to 
China  has  always  been  a  builder  of  world  peace, 
a  practitioner  of  multilateralism  and  a  contributor 
to  global  development.  Three  years  ago,  China’s 
President, Xi Jinping, attended the series of summits to 
mark the seventieth anniversary of the establishment of 
the United Nations and comprehensively expounded the 
idea  of  building  a  new  type  of  international  relations 
with  win-win  cooperation  as  the  goal  and  developing 
a  community  of  shared  human  destiny.  China  has 
contributed to the well-being of the peoples of the world 
through  solid  actions  and  actively  provided  public 
goods to the international community.
to  openness, 
China  has  proposed  the  Belt  and  Road  Initiative,
while  adhering 
transparency  and 
inclusion  and  promoting  complementary  advantages 
in  aiming 
to  achieve  common  development  and 
prosperity.  The  Initiative  has  become  the  largest 
international  cooperation  platform.  Not  long  ago, 
the  Beijing  Summit  of  the  Forum  on  China-Africa 
Cooperation was  successfully  held,  at  which  China 
launched  initiatives  and  measures  to  strengthen  the 
future  cooperation  between  China  and  Africa.  China 
and Africa agreed to build a closer community with a 
shared destiny. The Beijing Summit will certainly help 
Africa’s  development  and  revitalization,  expand  new 
and broader space to deepen South-South cooperation 
and inject strong and positive energy into world peace, 
stability and development.
China welcomes the seven key work areas proposed 
by the President of the General Assembly. As the largest 
developing  country  in  the  world,  China  is  willing  to 
work with Member States to firmly support and practice 
multilateralism,  jointly  safeguard  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
basic norms of international relations, further increase 
support for the work of the United Nations, more actively 
participate in the United Nations in various fields and 
make greater contributions to building a community of 
shared human destiny and creating a better future for 
human society.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
18/19 
18-30208
08/10/2018 
A/73/PV.17
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note 
of the report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the Organization contained in document A/73/1?
It was so decided.
The Acting President  (spoke in Spanish):  Before 
giving the floor to speakers in exercise of the right of 
reply, I would like to remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes 
for the second, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Ms. Gambhir (India): We have heard the delegation 
of Pakistan yet again make unwarranted remarks about 
an  integral  part  of  India.  I  take  the  floor  to  exercise 
India’s right of reply to those references.
Our  position  on  those  grossly  misleading  and 
cynical  attempts  is  well  known.  We  reiterated  during 
the recent general debate at the commencement of the 
current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  that  terror 
and talks do not go together (see A/73/PV.14). As much 
as  we  make  efforts  to  come  together  to  deal  with  the 
challenges of tomorrow, there will still be some, such as 
Pakistan, that will be driven by an archaic world view 
and long-expired doctrines. The good thing is that those 
with a focus on the past are not finding any resonance 
in today’s world. We hope that the spirit of cooperation 
and collaboration will convince them to abandon their 
destructive world view and become a constructive and 
responsible member of the community of nations.
Mr.  Chatha 
 (Pakistan):  We  are  obliged  to 
exercise our right of reply to the statement made by the 
representative of India.
It is regrettable that the Indian delegation has yet 
again  chosen  to  make  fabricated  claims  that  have  no 
basis either in fact or in law. May I remind the Indian 
representative that no amount of obfuscation, diversion 
or deceit can justify its illegal occupation of Jammu and 
Kashmir  or  help  cover  the  tracks  of  its  grave  human 
rights violation in the occupied territory. The report of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  rightly  lifts  the  veil  from  the  cage 
of  obfuscation  and  chronicles  the  massive  ongoing 
violations of human rights in Indian-occupied Jammu 
and Kashmir. The truth is that Jammu and Kashmir is 
not a part of India; it never was and never will be.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 112?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.
18-30208
19/19
