United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
29th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 31 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 43
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/85)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.3)
Draft amendments (A/73/L.9 through 
A/73/L.16)
Mr. Hilale (Morocco): In my capacity as Chair of 
the Group of African States for the month of October, 
I  have  the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf 
of  the  African  Group  on  agenda  item  43,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.
The  African  Group  is  of  the  view  that  economic 
sanctions  against  Cuba  have  caused  great  economic 
hardship,  especially  for  the  poor  and  vulnerable 
populations in the country. We believe that an immediate 
end to the economic embargo against Cuba is essential 
and could serve to promote social well-being and better 
living standards for the people of Cuba. In that regard, 
we encourage fostering a spirit of dialogue in resolving 
the  issue  and  thereby  enabling  Cuba  to  continue  to 
make an effective contribution to global development.
This is a matter of great importance to the African 
Group  and  to  Africa  in  general.  At  the  thirtieth 
ordinary session of the Assembly of the African Union 
in  January,  Africa’s  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
expressed  their  regrets  about  the  setback  in  bilateral 
relations between Cuba and United States of America 
and  urged  the  United  States  Government  to  lift  its  
long-standing, unjustifiable economic, commercial and 
financial blockade of the Cuban people.
Accordingly,  the  African  Group  reaffirms  its  full 
support for draft resolution A/73/L.3, on the necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo imposed by the United States of America on 
Cuba. We think that a diplomatic and political solution 
to the matter can be found, and we firmly believe that 
such  a  solution  will  be  beneficial  to  both  the  United 
States of America and Cuba, as well as other countries.
Mr. Edrees (Egypt): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China on agenda item 43, 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba”.  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his comprehensive report on the 
item under discussion today (A/73/85).
The Group regrets that the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States on 
Cuba for almost six decades remains fully in force and 
continues to be strengthened. We would like to recall 
the  positive  steps  taken  by  the  former  United  States 
Administration  between  2015  and  2016,  which  were 
still not enough to put an end to the embargo’s impact 
but did focus on a path leading in the right direction. 
The  Group  regrets  that  the  new  policy  established  by 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-35065 (E)
*1835065*

A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
the  current  United  States  Administration  is  aimed 
at  strengthening  the  embargo  on  Cuba.  We  believe 
this  policy  is  a  setback  to  the  process  of  normalizing 
relations between the two countries.
opportunity it has long deserved to work fully with the 
global  community  and  international  organizations  on 
issues such as health, the environment and agriculture, 
among others.
The Group of 77 and China would like to reiterate 
its  commitment  to  the  purposes,  principles  and  spirit 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and  of 
non-intervention and non-interference in their internal 
affairs,  as  well  as  freedom  of  international  trade  and 
navigation.  The  Group  believes  it  is  the  duty  and 
responsibility of every Member State to strictly comply 
with these principles. We are of the view that any policy 
or action disregarding these principles — in this case, 
unilateral  economic  sanctions  on  Cuba  —  should  be 
seriously considered for immediate repeal.
Given  the  fact  that  the  United  States  embargo  of 
Cuba has continued for almost 60 years, the Group of 
77  and  China  would  like  to  express  its  deep  concern 
about the prolonged negative effects that the economic 
sanctions and travel restrictions have had on Cuba and 
its  people.  From  April  2017  to  June  of  this  year,  the 
impact of the United States embargo on Cuba’s foreign 
trade amounted to more than $4 billion. Limited foreign 
investment  and  difficulty  of  access  to  development 
credits  translate  directly  into  economic  hardship  and 
negative humanitarian effects for the people of Cuba. 
The  country’s  socioeconomic  reforms  have  also  been 
hampered by the embargo.
In  conclusion,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  is 
concerned  that  if  the  economic  sanctions  continue, 
Cuba’s  development  potential,  in  both  economic  and 
human  terms,  will  be  unfairly  undermined,  making 
it  impossible  for  Cuba  to  embark  successfully  on  the 
path towards sustainable development envisaged in the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  all 
Member States have pledged to support.
to 
the 
its 
through 
Over  many  decades,  Cuba  has  made  an  extensive 
international 
and  ongoing  contribution 
community,  particularly 
remarkable 
provision  of  medical  assistance  to  countries  in  need. 
Cuba’s  emergency  assistance  to  countries  affected  by 
the Ebola crisis in West Africa is a great example of its 
solidarity  with  the  international  community.  For  that 
reason, the Group of 77 and China commends Cuba’s 
contributions  to  humanitarian  assistance  and  would 
like to express the hope that with the permanent lifting 
of the United States embargo, Cuba will be granted the 
The Group of 77 and China would like to reiterate 
its  strong  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  set  forth  in  resolution  71/5.  We 
would  like  to  reiterate  our  call  for  the  ending  of  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba. Its urgency 
and  necessity  is  further  emphasized  by  the  ongoing 
collective  global  endeavour  to  implement  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  The  Group  of 
77  and  China  would  therefore  like  to  appeal  to  the 
international community to intensify its efforts to bring 
about  the  lifting  of  the  embargo,  not  only  for  Cuba’s 
own prospects but also for the full achievement of the 
economic and social development of all members of the 
global community as a whole.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I would like to 
propose  that  the  list  of  speakers  on  the  current  topic 
be closed, in view of the large number of delegations 
already inscribed on the list.
It was so decided.
Mr. Moncada (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  for  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf 
of  the  120  States  members  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned Countries.
We  would  first  like  to  express  our  respect  for 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Cuba, and to welcome him 
warmly.  We  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude 
for  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  this  very 
important issue (A/73/85).
Over  the  past  27  years,  the  General  Assembly 
has  expressed  its  support  for  the  people  and  the 
Government  of  Cuba  through  its  support  for  the 
resolutions  calling  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo 
imposed by the United States on that sovereign country. 
In that regard, the Non-Aligned Movement would like 
to take this opportunity to reiterate its full opposition 
to the enactment and imposition of unilateral coercive 
measures, given their extraterritorial repercussions and 
their  illegal  nature.  We  also  reiterate  our  call  to  the 
Government of the United States of America to put an 
end to the illegal economic, commercial and financial 
2/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
embargo  that  it  imposed  on  Cuba  nearly  six  decades 
ago. Apart from being a violation of international law, 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms  and 
principles that govern peaceful relations among States, 
the embargo is also a violation of Cuba’s right to fully 
interact with the international community.
The Non-Aligned Movement has historically taken 
a position of principle in rejecting unilateral coercive 
measures,  particularly  those  used  as  instruments  for 
putting political or economic and financial pressure on 
States,  especially  developing  countries.  The  embargo 
on  Cuba  is  a  perfect  example  of  the  adverse  effects 
of  unilateral  coercive  measures  affecting  the  welfare 
of  peoples  and  among  other  things  creating  obstacles 
to the full enjoyment of their human rights, including 
the  right  to  development.  The  direct  and  indirect 
harm  inflicted  by  this  undeserved  embargo  against 
Cuba  is  vast.  It  affects  all  the  crucial  sectors  of  the 
Cuban economy, including public health, nutrition and 
agriculture, trade, investment and tourism and banking, 
a  sector  that  suffered  a  significant  blow  this  year 
because dozens of financial institutions decided to close 
bank accounts with any ties to Cuban citizens. It also 
denies Cuba access to markets, aid from international 
financial  institutions  and  technology  transfers  and  is 
Cuba’s  main  obstacle  to  wider  access  to  the  Internet, 
the exchange of ideas and the development of cultural, 
sports and scientific relations.
We therefore have no hesitation in emphasizing that 
continuing the embargo is completely unjustifiable and 
inappropriate to our times. It also runs counter to Cuba’s 
ongoing  efforts  to  attain  sustainable  development, 
including  the  Goals  set  forth  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  In  addition,  the  economic 
damages borne by the Cuban people as a result of the 
United States embargo amount to $933 billion. To put 
that  figure  in  context,  we  should  point  out  that  since 
we  last  discussed  this  agenda  item,  just  one  year  ago 
(see  A/72/PV.38  et  seq.),  the  embargo  has  resulted  in 
additional damages totalling nearly $4 billion.
The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries believes 
the establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba 
and  the  United  States  of  America  is  a  positive  first 
step  in  the  process  of  normalizing  bilateral  relations. 
However, we have to point out that the implementation 
of  the  blockade  against  Cuba  has  not  changed, 
and  that  represents  a  setback  in  the  normalization 
process.  Moreover,  the  certain  degree  of  progress  in 
that  normalization  is  now  threatened,  as  the  policies 
established  in  June  2017  by  the  current  United  States 
President,  which  seek  to  strengthen  the  embargo 
on Cuba, have shown.
Moreover, although the Departments of Commerce 
and  the  Treasury  issued  regulations  on  15  January 
2015  that  amounted  to  steps  in  the  right  direction  in 
areas such as travel to Cuba, telecommunications and 
remittances, they have limited scope and modify only 
certain aspects of the implementation of the blockade. 
Despite former United States President Barack Obama’s 
historic decision to notify the United States Congress 
of his decision to remove Cuba from the so-called list of 
States sponsoring international terrorism — an illegal 
and  unilateral  list  that  should  never  have  included 
Cuba — that has not led to a relaxation of the restrictions 
imposed  by  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  blockade 
on Cuba.
The  fact  that  191  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  72/4  last  year 
expresses  the  international  community’s  unanimity 
in demanding an end to the 56-year embargo and full 
adherence  to  the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations and the norms of 
international  law,  including  the  principles  of  mutual 
respect  and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States. We should point out that today more than 190 
nations maintain political and economic relations with 
Cuba, while the United States of America remains alone 
in implementing its policy of illegal and unjustifiable 
economic sanctions.
in 
reiterating 
its 
Finally, 
In  the  light  of  this,  the  States  members  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  urge  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  of  America  to  align  itself  with  the  will 
of  the  vast  majority  of  the  international  community 
and  comply  with  all  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly,  through  which  we  have  called  for 
an immediate and lasting end to the blockade on Cuba.
to 
strengthening multilateralism, the Movement reaffirms 
that full respect for the Charter of the United Nations, 
in  particular  the  principles  of  sovereign  equality, 
non-interference  and  non-intervention,  is  an  essential 
element  in  the  effective  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  That  is  why  the  international 
community must continue to work together to reverse 
and  eliminate  unilateral  coercive  measures,  including 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States on Cuba.
commitment 
18-35065
3/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
In  our  national  capacity,  we  want  to  express  our 
full  solidarity  with  our  Cuban  brothers  and  sisters, 
who, protected by their values of dignity, patriotism and 
humanism, have resisted the campaign of aggressions 
conducted by the United States. The Bolivarian Republic 
of  Venezuela  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.3, entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”, in its original 
version,  as  it  was  presented  by  the  Cuban  delegation. 
We call on the members of the international community 
to  reject  the  proposals  for  amendments  contained  in 
documents A/73/L.9 to A/73/L.16, which seek to divert 
attention  from  the  main  issue  that  brings  us  together 
today, the illegal embargo that has been imposed on our 
sister Republic of Cuba for more than 50 years.
In conclusion, in Venezuela we believe that the time 
has come to take concerted action to build international 
mechanisms that make it possible to counter the effects 
of the corrosive illegal measures taken against hundreds 
of millions of innocent victims all over the world. It is 
time to organize to free our peoples from this weapon 
of international aggression afflicting humankind.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  (CELAC).  I  would  like  to  begin  by  welcoming 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla.
CELAC  welcomed  the  steps  taken  between  2015 
and  2016  by  Cuba  and  the  United  States  to  begin  the 
process  of  normalizing  their  diplomatic  relations, 
marking the beginning of a new chapter in the history 
of  peace  and  coexistence  among  American  nations. 
However, we deplore the fact that the blockade is still 
a  reality  for  the  Cuban  people.  It  is  undeniable  that 
its  continued  existence  is  a  major  obstacle  to  Cuba’s 
normal development.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/73/85) 
confirms  the  cost  of  this  policy  to  Cuba,  which  does 
substantial and unjustifiable damage to the welfare of 
the Cuban people and is contrary to the Latin American 
and Caribbean peoples’ desire for peace, as expressed 
in the Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean 
as  a  Zone  of  Peace.  We  also  regret  the  new  policy 
announced by the current United States Administration, 
which  seeks  to  strengthen  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba  and  is  a  setback 
to the normalization of bilateral relations between the 
two countries.
The economic, commercial and financial blockade 
imposed  on  Cuba  is  contrary  to  the  letter,  spirit  and 
principles and purposes of the Charter and international 
law.  CELAC  reiterates  its  categorical  rejection  of 
the  application  of  laws  and  measures  contrary  to 
international  law,  such  as  the  Helms-Burton  Act, 
including its extraterritorial effects and the increasing 
efforts  to  suppress  Cuba’s  international  financial 
transactions,  which  goes  against  the  political  will  of 
the international community. We urge the Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America  to  put  an  end  to  its 
application of this law.
The  United  States  Congress  has  the  authority  to 
completely end the blockade of Cuba. We have also seen 
that the President of the United States, if he wishes, can 
use his broad executive powers to substantially modify 
the  application  of  the  blockade.  CELAC  reiterates 
its  special  declaration  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
by the United States on Cuba, adopted during the fifth 
Summit  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States, held in Punta Cana, in the Dominican 
Republic, on 25 January 2017, by which it requested the 
Government  of  the  United  States  to  comply  with  the 
successive resolutions adopted by the General Assembly 
and  to  heed  the  repeated  calls  from  the  international 
community  to  end  its  economic,  commercial  and 
financial blockade of Cuba. We believe that returning 
the territory occupied by the United States Guantanamo 
Bay  Naval  Base  to  Cuba,  as  the  Cuban  people  and 
Government have repeatedly requested, should be one 
of the elements included in the process of normalizing 
relations between the two countries through a bilateral 
dialogue, in accordance with international law.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  enshrines  the 
rights,  obligations  and  principles  that  have  become 
part  of  the  legal  norms  of  humankind,  not  merely  of 
international law. It must not be violated or undermined 
by any Member State. Member States must bring their 
national and international actions in line with the rights, 
obligations and principles enshrined in our Charter.
In  2015,  2016  and  2017,  the  resolution  on  the 
Cuban embargo was adopted with 191 votes in favour, 
confirming the universality of this cause. That is why 
the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States 
will once again resolutely support the adoption of draft 
4/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
resolution A/73/L.3, entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
We want to emphasize the dichotomy between the 
application  of  unilateral  corrective  measures  that  are 
not supported by international law and the letter, spirit 
and purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations. We reiterate our appeal to the United States to 
accept the call from the countries of Latin America and 
the Caribbean, every other region of the world and its 
own people, to put an end once and for all to the unjust 
blockade of Cuba.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  I  have  the  honour  to 
address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  10 
States members of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations (ASEAN) in order to express our support for 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.3,  on  the  necessity  of  ending 
the  economic,  commercial,  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States on the Republic of Cuba.
Let me start by acknowledging the presence in this 
Hall today of the Foreign Minister of Cuba, whom we 
welcome to the United Nations.
the 
ASEAN  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  just 
delivered  by 
representatives  of  Egypt  and 
Venezuela on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, respectively.
Since this session began, we have heard clarion calls 
from Member States urging us to forge a more inclusive 
world  where  differences  are  resolved  through  greater 
engagement  and  dialogue  prevails  over  withdrawal 
or  confrontation.  ASEAN  firmly  believes  in  these 
ideals, which are in accordance with the fundamental 
principles  of  sovereign  equality,  non-interference  and 
non-intervention enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations. In a multilateral rules-based system, there is 
no justification for a unilateral economic, commercial 
and financial embargo of Cuba.
the  United  Nations  system 
ASEAN  notes  the  assessment  of  the  Resident 
Coordinator  of 
for 
operational activities for development in Cuba, detailed 
in the most recent report of the Secretary-General, that
“[t]he  embargo  affects  opportunities  for  national 
and 
local  development  and  creates  economic 
hardship  for  the  population.  It  has  an  impact  on 
the  population’s  most  vulnerable  groups,  and  on 
human development in general” (A/73/85, p. 126).
We  also  note  the  assessment  of  the  United  Nations 
Population Fund, which states that
“[t]he  embargo  continues  to  affect  the  economic, 
social  and  cultural  development  of  the  Cuban 
people, particularly, the quality of life of the most 
vulnerable groups” (ibid., p. 149).
This  year  marks  the  fourth  in  which  ASEAN  has 
made a statement in the General Assembly calling for 
the  unilateral  embargo  of  Cuba  to  be  lifted  as  soon 
as  possible.  ASEAN  member  States  have  also  voted 
unanimously in favour of the relevant annual resolution 
for the past 17 years.
It has been three years since the United States and 
Cuba restored diplomatic relations. ASEAN encourages 
both countries to build on that first step and together chart 
a path forward towards the normalization of relations. 
Ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo on Cuba will be a significant and historic step 
in the right direction. It would significantly improve the 
quality of life and living standards of the Cuban people 
and  contribute  to  the  economic  development  of  both 
countries, as well as advancing the General Assembly’s 
efforts aimed at achieving an inclusive 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
We  recognize  that  much  remains  to  be  done, 
and  encourage  the  United  States  and  Cuba  to  remain 
committed to an open and constructive dialogue that is 
underpinned by mutual respect. ASEAN joins the vast 
majority of the international community in reiterating 
its support for the lifting of the unilateral embargo on 
Cuba as soon as possible.
Ms. Carey (Bahamas): I have the honour to address 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  14  States 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
on  agenda  item  43,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
CARICOM  aligns 
I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  presence  among 
us of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, who has 
joined us for this morning’s meeting.
itself  with 
the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Egypt,  Venezuela  and 
El  Salvador  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
respectively.
18-35065
5/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
reiterates 
The  Caribbean  Community 
its 
unequivocal opposition to the imposition by the United 
States  of  an  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo on Cuba that has been in place for nearly six 
decades.  The  embargo  has  caused  the  Cuban  people 
undue hardship for two generations.
For  almost  30  consecutive  years,  the  General 
Assembly  has  opposed  this  unilateral  and  coercive 
measure  by  an  overwhelming  majority.  CARICOM 
views  these  sanctions  as  a  contravention  of  the 
precepts  of  international  law,  including  humanitarian 
law,  inconsistent  with  the  policies  of  free  trade  and 
in  conflict  with  the  norms  and  principles  governing 
peaceful  relations  among  States.  In  more  recent 
years,  the  resolution  has  garnered  resounding  global 
support,  with  all  Member  States  except  two  voting 
to  end  the  embargo  on  Cuba.  This  near  unanimous 
vote  in  favour  of  immediately  ending  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo is a clear indication 
of 
the  United 
Nations  membership.  The  international  community 
has  recognized  that  the  embargo  runs  counter  to  the 
doctrine  of  multilateralism,  the  tenets  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations and the principles of sovereignty 
and non-interference in a country’s domestic affairs.
the  overwhelming  disapproval  of 
The punitive embargo is of concern to CARICOM, 
which shares history, culture and familial ties with the 
people  of  Cuba.  Cuba  is  the  most  populous  State  in 
the Caribbean region and an integral part of the Pan-
Caribbean  process.  Cuba’s  ties  with  other  Caribbean 
countries  have  been  cemented  by  years  of  active 
cooperation  at  various  levels.  The  States  members 
of  CARICOM  continue  to  maintain  close  relations 
with  Cuba  through  a  wide  range  of  programmes 
of  cooperation  in  such  areas  as  trade,  health  care, 
infrastructure and human resource development.
Cuba  is  an  economic  and  development  partner  of 
the  Caribbean  Community.  We  are  a  sisterhood  and 
brotherhood of nations that continues to enjoy mutually 
beneficial relations. In many ways, our future regional 
development  depends  on  our  collective  advancement 
and progress. In that context, we view the embargo not 
just as a punitive act against Cuba but as an impediment 
to our shared regional development.
Cuba is a friend of many. It is a peaceful and generous 
State. It is a cooperative partner in international affairs 
and  a  voice  of  reason  on  matters  on  the  international 
agenda. CARICOM therefore reiterates its support for 
the  right  of  the  Cuban  people  to  self-determination 
in  a  manner  beneficial  to  their  collective  social  and 
economic development.
CARICOM  saw  progress  in  the  re-establishment 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States. We believe it was an important positive step in 
the process of normalizing bilateral relations between 
the two States. At the same time, we are concerned with 
the  proposed  rollback  of  the  positive  steps  of  recent 
years.  Our  subregion  understands  very  well  that  each 
country has a responsibility to conduct its own bilateral 
relations.  At  the  same  time,  we  also  understand  that 
we  are  all  guided  by  a  set  of  principles  that  provide 
an overarching framework in which friendly relations 
among nations are pursued. We hope that as an important 
player in international affairs, the United States will be 
open  to  considering  the  opinions  and  concerns  of  its 
friends and traditional partners on this issue.
The Group welcomes the recent visit to Cuba by the 
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
of  the  United  States,  Senator  Bob  Corker,  to  discuss 
relations  between  the  two  countries.  We  remain 
guardedly  optimistic  that  his  visit  will  help  to  reset 
relations in a positive direction.
I  want  to  state  categorically  in  this  context  that 
CARICOM  continues  to  enjoy  friendly  relations  with 
both Cuba and the United States, two neighbours that 
are a mere 90 miles from each other. It is in that context 
that  CARICOM  States  unstintingly  support  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.3,  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  We  consider 
the lifting of the embargo to be a prerequisite for any 
meaningful reconciliation between the two countries.
Mr.  Islam  (Bangladesh):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the States members of 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on draft 
resolution A/73/L.3, entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
The suffering of the Cuban people has gone on for 
far too long and is unfair. The United States embargo 
has been harming not only the Cuban economy, but also 
the  well-being  and  basic  human  rights  of  the  Cuban 
people  and  Cuban  nationals  living  in  other  countries, 
creating unnecessary economic hardship for them. The 
OIC  believes  that  such  unilateral  action  runs  counter 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
6/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
United  Nations.  Pursuant  to  its  established  position 
consistent with international law, the OIC opposes any 
unjustified  use  of  unilateral  action  that  might  affect 
the  sovereignty  and  interests  of  another  State  and 
its  people.  The  unilateral  blockade  affects  not  only 
Cuba  but  also  third  countries,  as  well  as  entities  and 
companies that face fines for engaging in commercial 
activities with Cuba. That erodes the liberalization of 
trade  that  the  international  community  has  long  been 
trying  to  achieve.  The  overall  situation  remains  a 
source of deep concern.
We  are  striving  to  work  for  humankind  and  for 
our peoples’ well-being. Not too long ago, our leaders 
here  at  the  United  Nations  agreed  on  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  committed  to  fulfilling  the 
desire of the global community to ensure that no one 
is  left  behind.  The  lingering  embargo  on  Cuba  is  an 
obstacle  to  its  people’s  efforts  to  realize  those  Goals. 
The  risk  of  leaving  Cuba’s  12  million  people  behind, 
through no fault of their own, does a disservice to our 
goal of implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  As  a  front-runner  among  the  countries 
who advocate for a prosperous global society, the United 
States has a larger responsibility to ensure that the 2030 
Agenda’s  full  benefits  reach  the  entire  Cuban  people. 
The OIC therefore joins an overwhelming majority of 
Member  States  in  urging  the  United  States  to  put  an 
end to the embargo on Cuba. The OIC’s member States 
firmly support draft resolution A/73/L.3 and call on the 
States Members of the United Nations to vote in favour 
of it, as they have in past years.
Mr.  Opimakh  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
Republic of Belarus has always stood and will always 
stand against the use of unilateral sanctions in foreign 
policy.  The  use  of  economic  coercion  as  a  method  of 
putting pressure on sovereign States is a gross violation 
of the norms and principles of international law. Such 
actions are unacceptable in the modern world and should 
be repudiated in any civilized society. We deplore the 
fact  that  the  positive  steps  that  the  United  States  and 
Cuba took in 2015 and 2016 within the framework of a 
process of normalizing bilateral relations have not been 
built on as they should and have become hostage to a 
new and even more rigid policy towards Havana. The 
increased negative rhetoric and continuing restrictions 
on  Cuba  not  only  do  not  contribute  to  a  constructive 
dialogue  between  the  parties  but  also  devalue  the 
constructive 
their  previous  bilateral 
cooperation.  This  state  of  affairs  continues  to  have  a 
results  of 
negative impact on Cuba’s economic development with 
adverse effects on its citizens.
In our view, it would not only be possible to resolve 
the situation in a civilized way, based on mutual respect 
and equal cooperation, but to do it in a very short time, 
as  we  witnessed  just  a  few  years  ago.  All  it  needs  is 
the political will and courage to end the decades-long 
economic  blockade  of  an  island  of  freedom.  In  that 
regard,  we  hope  for  a  resumption  of  a  positive  and 
constructive  process,  in  accordance  with  the  norms 
of international law and the principles of the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  Belarus  remains  committed  to 
the position that it is crucial to put together a genuine, 
living  dialogue  to  counter  economic  and  political 
pressure  and  sanctions.  We  have  repeatedly  declared 
that any attempts by individual States to change other 
States’  internal  political  systems  through  military, 
political,  economic  or  other  means  are  unacceptable. 
Belarus  calls  for  a  complete,  comprehensive  and 
irreversible  end  to  the  economic,  financial  and  trade 
embargo on Cuba by the United States. Only real steps 
in that direction can ensure the positive development of 
bilateral relations between it and Cuba.
Mr.  Dang  Dinh  Quy  (Viet  Nam):  I  would  first 
like  to  warmly  welcome  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba. I would also like to express our great appreciation 
to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive report 
(A/73/85) on the implementation of resolution 72/4.
Viet  Nam  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  just 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, Egypt, on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and Singapore, on 
behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
A  few  years  ago,  we  were  encouraged  by  the 
explicit intentions of beginning a new chapter in its ties 
with Cuba that the United States Government showed 
in carrying out a number of measures, including calling 
on  its  Congress  to  lift  its  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo on Cuba. Regrettably, those positive 
developments have been fading since April of last year, 
when  the  United  States  began  gradually  introducing 
tougher  measures  to  reintensify  and  reconsolidate 
the  embargo.  The  renewed  United  States  sanctions 
have created more obstacles and challenges to Cuba’s 
efforts to take advantage of development opportunities, 
including 
ties  with 
American  and  third-party  partners.  Such  coercive 
through  business  and 
trade 
18-35065
7/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
measures represent a serious setback that not only adds 
to the tension in the bilateral relations between the two 
countries but also inflicts severe damage on the people 
of  Cuba  and  especially  its  most  vulnerable  groups, 
including women and children.
As  we  have  done  for  the  past  26  years,  we  are 
gathered here today to take action on a draft resolution 
of  the  General  Assembly  (A/73/L.3)  calling  on  the 
United States to put an end to the embargo. Since 1992, 
when Cuba introduced the first draft resolution on this 
agenda  item  in  the  Assembly,  support  for  the  Cuban 
people’s  legitimate  claims  has  grown.  Last  year’s 
version of the resolution was adopted by 191 votes to 
2, showing that the request for the immediate lifting of 
the  embargo  represents  the  overwhelming  opinion  of 
the international community.
As we all focus on the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, the United States 
embargo is an obstacle to the efforts and endeavours of 
the people and the Government of Cuba to participate 
in  that  process.  As  a  country  that  experienced  and 
suffered  under  a  United  States  trade  embargo  for  19 
years,  Viet  Nam  fully  understands  those  difficulties 
and damage. The reality of the relations between Viet 
Nam and the United States shows that only constructive 
dialogue  and  engagement  can  foster  mutual  trust  and 
bring positive change. Embargoes and similar imposed 
measures only make the problem worse. Furthermore, 
they  run  counter  to  the  shared  desire  of  every  nation 
of  the  world  to  build  sound  and  equal  international 
relations,  regardless  of  differences  in  their  political 
systems and while ensuring that each nation’s right to 
choose its own development path is respected.
Viet  Nam  reiterates  its  consistent  opposition  to 
any  State’s  efforts  to  impose  unilateral  embargoes  or 
coercive measures on another. We will vote in favour 
of draft resolution A/73/L.3 today in a demonstration 
of  our  desire  to  join  the  international  community 
in  calling  on  the  United  States  to  put  an  end  to  its 
unilateral embargo of Cuba and enable it to exercise its 
freedom to participate equitably and fairly in economic 
and  trade  relations  with  all  of  its  partners  around  the 
world  in  accordance  with  international  law,  and  to 
freely build its own future. We urge the United States 
Government to reverse its current policy towards Cuba, 
in  the  service  of  benefiting  and  meeting  the  needs  of 
the two countries’ peoples and for the sake of durable 
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  the  region  and 
the world at large.
In that regard, we greatly appreciate Cuba’s desire to 
continue dialogue and cooperation on issues of mutual 
interest and to negotiate pending bilateral matters with 
the  United  States  on  a  basis  of  equality,  reciprocity 
and  respect  for 
the  other’s  national  sovereignty 
and independence.
By  voting  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution,  Viet 
Nam  once  again  reaffirms  its  strong  support  for 
friendship, cooperation and solidarity with Cuba and, 
at the same time, renews its unwavering commitment 
to safeguarding the principles of international laws as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr.  Kim  Song  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  extends  its  full  support  to  draft 
resolution A/73/L.3, entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”, based on 
the principled stand of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries and the Group of 77 with regard to rejecting 
any form of unilateral economic sanctions.
My  delegation  strongly  condemns  the  blockade 
of Cuba as an infringement of its sovereignty, a crime 
against  humanity  and  a  violation  of  human  rights,  in 
contravention of the Charter of the United Nations. All 
States Members of the United Nations demand an end 
to  the  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  on  Cuba  and 
call  for  the  creation  of  a  peaceful  environment  for 
sustainable development.
For  almost  six  decades  now,  since  the  foundation 
of the Republic of Cuba, the United States has imposed 
a unilateral blockade on it in violation of international 
law. Cuba’s economic losses due to the blockade amount 
to  tens  of  trillions  of  dollars.  In  November  2017,  the 
United  States  Departments  of  the  Treasury,  State  and 
Commerce  decided  to  impose  additional  obstacles  in 
order  to  further  limit  opportunities  for  the  American 
business community in Cuba. That clearly shows that 
there has been no change in the intention of the United 
States to effect regime change in Cuba through a deep-
rooted economic blockade.
My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the  successful 
adoption  of  today’s  draft  resolution  with  the  full 
support  of  the  overwhelming  majority  during  the 
session — as large as in any previous Assembly session 
on this resolution — will reflect the unanimous wish of 
the  international  community,  which  has  continued  to 
8/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
lend its support and solidarity to the rightful struggle 
of the Government and the people of Cuba.
In conclusion, my delegation would like to take this 
opportunity to once again express its strong support and 
solidarity  to  the  Government  of  Cuba  and  its  people, 
who have been struggling vigorously to safeguard the 
dignity and sovereignty of a nation confronted with a 
unilateral blockade by the United States.
Mr. Rattray (Jamaica): My delegation aligns itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  77  and  China,  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States,  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries and the Caribbean Community, and would like 
to offer the following remarks in its national capacity.
Jamaica is profoundly disappointed at the continued 
need for the General Assembly to meet for yet another 
year  in  this  manner  to  consider  yet  another  draft 
resolution  (A/73/L.3)  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba. Jamaica has 
consistently  argued  against  the  embargo,  imposed  in 
violation  of  international  law.  It  is  an  affront  to  the 
collective  expression  of  the  international  community, 
which  has  consistently  called  for  it  to  be  lifted.  The 
overwhelming  view  of  the  international  community 
was made manifest yet again last year by the fact that 
191 Member States voted in favour of resolution 72/4 to 
lift the 56-year-old policy of economic blockade.
Jamaica is concerned about the fact that despite the 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  recent  years  towards 
a  rapprochement  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba, we are now witnessing increasing moves aimed 
at  strengthening  the  embargo,  thereby  weakening 
the  prospects  for  meaningful  dialogue  between  the 
countries. We would like to point to the evidence for the 
strengthening  of  that  policy.  First,  the  restrictions  on 
Cuba’s  international  financial  transactions,  including 
with  multilateral  organizations,  have 
intensified. 
Secondly,  the  United  States  Administration  tightened 
the blockade of Cuba on 16 June 2017 with the signing 
of a national security presidential memorandum entitled 
“Strengthening the Policy of the United States Toward 
Cuba”.  Thirdly,  on  8  November  2017,  the  United 
States Departments of Commerce, Treasury and State 
issued  new  regulations  and  provisions  for  putting  the 
memorandum into effect. Finally, on 10 September, the 
United States Administration extended the application 
against  Cuba  of  the  Trading  with  the  Enemy  Act  to 
14  September  2019,  thereby  maintaining  the  legal 
framework on which the 1962 blockade policy on Cuba 
is based.
We are also concerned about the fact that tourism 
from  the  United  States  to  Cuba  remains  effectively 
illegal,  despite  the  restoration  of  diplomatic  relations 
in 2015 and the removal of Cuba from the United States 
list of State sponsors of terrorism. Besides that, we note 
that  the  United  States  Departments  of  the  Treasury, 
Commerce and State are being used to investigate and 
prosecute those who establish or consider establishing 
normal  financial,  commercial  and  economic  relations 
with  Cuba.  The  extraterritorial  application  of  United 
States laws violates the principles of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  as  well  as  international  law.  Indeed, 
it  represents  a  permanent  threat  to  the  stability  of  a 
Member State of the Organization and contravenes the 
principles of multilateralism.
I  would  like  to  point  out  that  although  United 
States  policy  and  law  technically  make  an  exemption 
for trading in raw materials for food and medicine, in 
conformity  with  international  humanitarian  law,  the 
extraterritorial reach of the United States sanctions and 
the implications of de-risking by correspondent banks 
effectively result in blocking basic humanitarian trade. 
In fact, Cuba is even unable to trade food and medicine 
with subsidiaries of United States companies in third-
party countries.
The situation is even more worrisome against the 
backdrop  of  reports  of  the  continued  impact  of  the 
embargo  on  the  existence  of  ordinary  Cubans.  In  an 
environment in which the international community has 
agreed to focus its attention on the implementation of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  it  seems 
ill-advised  that  the  embargo  should  be  maintained 
even as we proclaim the need to leave no one behind. 
The  embargo  constitutes  the  principal  obstacle  to  the 
development of the Cuban economy.
In  addition  to  the  attainment  of  the  SDGs,  the 
embargo hinders Cuba’s national plan for economic and 
social  development.  That  therefore  confirms  that  the 
embargo  represents  a  violation  of  the  right  to  peace, 
development and security of a sovereign State.
Jamaica  has  always  maintained  that  engagement 
with Cuba is essential. We have had a long and fruitful 
relationship with Cuba, one of our closest neighbours, 
which has witnessed the development of a vibrant and 
dynamic cooperation framework, despite the challenges 
18-35065
9/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
wrought by the embargo. Our relationship has prompted 
the Government of Jamaica to approve a motion, over 
the past nine years, by the House of Representatives in 
support of our Cuban brothers and sisters.
It is for those reasons that we will vote in favour of 
this draft resolution, as originally submitted, and as we 
have done in previous years.
Mr.  Lal  (India):  India  associates  itself  with  the 
statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Egypt,  on 
behalf  of  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  Venezuela,  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
We  welcome  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Cuba,  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, here today. 
We also thank the Secretary-General for his report on 
this issue (A/73/85).
Every year, for more than two and a half decades, 
the General Assembly has considered the issue of the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
more than five decades ago by the United States on Cuba. 
Every year, the Assembly has rejected the imposition of 
laws  and  regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and 
all  other  forms  of  coercive  economic  measures  that 
hurt  the  progress  and  prosperity  of  people  the  world 
over. Last year, 191 Member States voted in favour of 
resolution 72/4, expressing their strong support for the 
lifting of the embargo.
The General Assembly has also called on all States 
to  refrain  from  promulgating  and  applying  —  and 
has  urged  them  to  repeal  and  invalidate  —  laws  and 
measures  that  have  extraterritorial  effects  on  the 
sovereignty  of  other  States,  in  conformity  with  their 
obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and international law. There can be little doubt that the 
continued existence of this embargo, in contravention 
of  overwhelming  world  opinion  as  expressed  by 
the  Assembly,  undermines  multilateralism  and  the 
credibility of the United Nations itself.
As  the  world’s  largest  democracy,  with  abiding 
faith in multilateralism, India stands in solidarity with 
the Assembly in its unambiguous rejection of domestic 
laws  having  extraterritorial  impact.  Such  embargoes 
have the effect of impeding the full achievement of the 
economic and social development of the population of 
the country affected, particularly women and children. 
They  also  hinder  the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights, 
including the right to development, food, medical care 
and social services, among other things.
Successive reports of the Secretary-General — and 
this year’s report is no exception — have also established 
that the embargo, particularly through its extraterritorial 
effects, has had an adverse impact on the Cuban people 
and the country’s development efforts.
At  the  same  time,  we  want  to  acknowledge  the 
notable socioeconomic and development achievements 
of  the  Cuban  people,  particularly  the  country’s  high 
ranking  on  the  human  development  index  and  its 
earlier  achievement  of  several  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
Three years ago, when launching the transformative 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  world 
leaders again strongly urged all States to refrain from 
any unilateral economic, financial or trade measures not 
in accordance with international law and the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  The  continuation  of  the  embargo 
will  severely  affect  Cuba’s  ability  to  implement  the 
comprehensive 2030 Agenda.
Cuba’s  expertise  in  health  care,  achieved  despite 
its problems, enabled it to respond quickly, effectively 
and substantially to the call made to all nations in the 
General  Assembly  three  years  ago  to  respond  to  the 
Ebola crisis in Africa.
People-to-people 
immense 
possibilities for fostering better understanding among 
nations. The international community should intensify 
its  efforts  to  promote  an  environment  free  from 
sanctions and embargoes. India hopes that the embargo 
will  be  withdrawn  as  soon  as  possible  and  supports 
draft resolution A/73/L.3, as submitted by Cuba.
contact 
holds 
Mr.  Matjila  (South  Africa):  Before  I  address 
the  issue  at  hand,  allow  me  to  convey  South  Africa’s 
heartfelt condolences to the United States of America 
following  the  tragic  mass  shooting  that  took  place  in 
Pittsburgh  a  few  days  ago.  Our  thoughts  and  prayers 
go  out  to  the  bereaved  families  and  to  those  who  are 
still  fighting  for  their  lives.  That  incident  serves  to 
underscore  once  more  the  need  for  all  of  us  to  stand 
united against all forms of hatred and violence.
I  would  like  to  recognize  the  presence  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, at this important debate, which 
seeks an end to the injustice of the embargo on Cuba.
Turning to the important issues under consideration, 
South Africa aligns itself with the statements delivered 
by the representatives of Egypt, on behalf of the Group 
10/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
of 77 and China, the Kingdom of Morocco, on behalf 
of  the  Group  of  African  States,  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, on behalf of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned Countries.
South  Africa  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  (A/73/85)  on  the  implementation  of  resolution 
72/4,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba.”
Cuba  continues  to  demonstrate  its  commitment 
to South-South cooperation by sharing its experience, 
knowledge  and  human  resource  development,  among 
other  things,  with  other  developing  countries  as  a 
manifestation  of  solidarity  among  the  peoples  and 
countries of the South. It can never be overemphasized 
that  the  ties  of  friendship  and  camaraderie  between 
South Africa and Cuba are deep-rooted and enduring. 
At great sacrifice, Cuba made a significant contribution 
to  the  liberation  of  South  Africa  from  apartheid,  for 
which we remain eternally grateful.
Those  bonds  of  friendship  have  continued  and 
deepened  under  South  Africa’s  democratic  system, 
with South Africa and Cuba enjoying excellent bilateral 
relations  across  a  wide  range  of  sectors  in  pursuit  of 
our mutual quest of lifting up our peoples and others 
all over the world from the terrible burdens of poverty, 
socioeconomic marginalization and deprivation.
South Africa remains steadfast in its long-standing 
support  for  the  annual  resolution  on  the  necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
on  Cuba.  The 
imposition  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures  by  a  major  economy  such  as  the  United 
States  on  one  of  our  fellow  developing  countries  and 
one  of  its  geographically  closest  neighbours  has  done 
immeasurable damage to the development of the people 
of  Cuba  and  as  ever  remains  unjustified.  Indeed,  the 
United  States  itself  recognized  that  fact  during  the 
Obama  Administration  when  it  began  to  pursue  the 
normalization  of  diplomatic  relations  and  a  gradual 
relaxation of the embargo. Regrettably, that progressive 
step  has  since  been  reversed  and  the  people  of  Cuba 
are once again faced with monumental obstacles to the 
fulfilment  of  their  basic  human  rights,  including  the 
right  to  development  and  the  realization  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
and  illegal  embargo  of  Cuba  by  the  United  States,  a 
regressive  policy  that  prevents  third  countries  from 
pursuing  normal  trade  and  investment  opportunities 
with  Cuba, 
further  undermining  our  collective 
sustainable development efforts.
It  is  a  testament  to  the  fortitude  of  the  Cuban 
people  that  despite  those  odds,  Cuba  has  continued 
to  make  significant  strides  in  addressing  its  people’s 
socioeconomic  and  development  challenges.  One  of 
those  achievements  is  Cuba’s  commendable  health 
sector, which rivals that of many developed countries. 
South  Africa  continues  to  benefit  from  a  wide  range 
of cooperative arrangements with Cuba in this area, as 
well as others.
South  Africa  rejects  draft  amendments  A/73/L.9 
through  A/73/L.16,  introduced  by  the  United  States, 
to this year’s draft resolution (A/73/L.3), which clearly 
represent an attempt to divert attention from the serious 
human rights violations that the embargo inflicts on the 
people of Cuba. South Africa urges the United States 
to  resume  cordial  diplomatic  relations  with  a  view  to 
advancing the end of the deplorable Cuban embargo, a 
relic of a bygone era that undermines the spirit of the 
Charter of the United Nations that as Member States of 
this Organization we are all committed to. It therefore 
goes without saying that South Africa will once again 
vote in solidarity with Cuba, and calls on all Member 
States, including the developed countries, which seem 
very quiet right now, to voice their condemnation and 
vote in favour of the draft resolution in question, urging 
the  international  community  to  work  together  to  free 
Cuba  from  the  political,  economic,  commercial  and 
financial shackles of an embargo that has been in place 
for more than half a century.
Mr. Gertze (Namibia): We are pleased to welcome 
the Foreign Minister of Cuba to our meeting today.
My delegation aligns itself with the statements by 
the Permanent Representatives of Venezuela, on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, Morocco, 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States,  and  Egypt, 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  Namibia 
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/73/85) 
on  the  implementation  of  resolution  72/4,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.
South  Africa  also  remains  deeply  concerned 
about  the  extraterritorial  application  of  the  unilateral 
For  close  to  60  years,  the  Cuban  people  have 
been  subjected  to  an  unfair,  unnecessary  and  unjust 
18-35065
11/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
economic, commercial and financial blockade, imposed 
in  an  unsuccessful  attempt  by  the  United  States  to 
effect Government change in the Republic of Cuba. In 
2016,  we  were  happy  to  note  a  change  of  tone  on  the 
part  of  the  United  States  Government  and  hoped  that 
the blockade would come to an end right then. Instead, 
we  have  seen  heightened  tensions,  not  because  the 
people of Cuba have demonstrated any ill will towards 
the United States of America but merely because they 
continue  to  exercise  their  sovereign  and  democratic 
right to have a Government of their own choice.
to 
law  and 
international 
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  the 
blockade,  contrary 
the 
Charter of the United Nations, violates the right of the 
Cuban  people  to  health  care,  food,  education,  sports, 
culture  and  development.  In  essence,  it  is  a  violation 
of human rights and the dignity of the Cuban person. 
Furthermore,  it  continues  to  have  a  severe  impact  on 
Cuba economically, affecting foreign trade, investment 
and, of course, the economy generally. We note that the 
Cuban  people  and  Government  continue  to  be  denied 
income from the export of goods and services, which 
remain  the  areas  most  affected  by  the  embargo.  The 
people  of  Cuba  must  be  allowed  to  participate  in  the 
international economic system without restrictions.
Namibia  would  like  to  remind  Member  States  of 
the current United States Administration’s signing on 
17 June 2017 of a directive entitled “National security 
presidential memorandum on strengthening the policy 
of  the  United  States  toward  Cuba”,  which  marked 
a  setback  in  the  bilateral  relations  between  the  two 
nations. We once again urge the United States to lift the 
economic  embargo  on  Cuba.  Namibia  has  taken  note 
of  the  draft  amendments  A/73/L.9  through  A/73/L.16 
proposed  by  the  United  States  to  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.3, which calls for an end to the embargo. They 
seem  to  represent  an  attempt  by  the  United  States 
to  justify  the  blockade,  which  has  been  shown  to  be 
outdated  and  in  fact  constitutes  a  serious  violation 
of  the  human  rights  of  the  entire  Cuban  people.  It  is 
regrettable  that  at  a  time  when,  through  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  the  world  has 
committed to ensuring that no one is left behind, such 
amendments, and the continuing embargo, will in effect 
leave  Cuba  behind.  We  call  on  Member  States  not  to 
allow  those  attempts,  as  they  will  surely  weaken  our 
commitment to multilateralism.
In  conclusion,  Namibia  continues  to  stand  by 
Cuba  against  the  unjust  blockade  and  calls  on  the 
international community to support the Cuban people 
in ensuring that it is unconditionally lifted.
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report  (A/73/85)  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba. The Russian 
Federation  has  consistently  adhered  to  a  principled 
position on the annual General Assembly resolution on 
this subject presented by our Cuban friends. We stand 
in  solidarity  with  an  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
members of the international community and have made 
concerted efforts to that end. We firmly condemn the 
United States embargo on Cuba and advocate for it to 
be lifted immediately and completely. Both Chambers 
of  the  Federal  Assembly  of  the  Russian  Federation 
have  once  again  adopted  an  appeal  to  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Parliaments  of  the  States  Members 
of the United Nations reiterating our condemnation of 
Washington’s destructive course of action. Those texts 
have been circulated as General Assembly documents 
under agenda item 43.
We  view  the  continuing  commercial,  economic, 
and financial blockade of Cuba by the United States as 
an odious relic of the Cold War and a glaring example 
of  unilateral,  illegitimate  sanctions.  We  consider  the 
use  of  such  unlawful  practices  to  be  an  anachronism 
that is counterproductive, completely unjustified in the 
context  of  today’s  realities  and  entirely  inconsistent 
with the goal of ensuring the progressive development 
of international cooperation.
Russia welcomed the decision of the United States 
of America on 26 October 2016 to abstain in the voting 
on  resolution  71/5,  as  a  result  of  which  not  a  single 
vote was cast against it for the first time in a quarter 
of  a  century.  Nevertheless,  despite  Washington’s  own 
acknowledgement  of  the  futility  of  further  attempts 
to  isolate  Havana,  the  blockade  remains  in  effect, 
significantly damaging Cuba’s economy and preventing 
its  citizens  from  enjoying  their  legitimate  right  to  a 
decent  life,  particularly  in  socially  important  areas. 
Moreover, a number of mitigating measures introduced 
by  the  previous  United  States  Administration  either 
have yet to enter into force or are not operating as they 
should,  creating  serious  obstacles  in  Cuba’s  path  to 
full integration into the global financial and economic 
system  and  preventing  it  from  effectively  developing 
its cooperation with foreign partners. Cuba’s inability 
to  participate  in  the  operations  of  international  credit 
12/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
institutions and its exclusion from the standard system of 
inter-State transactions seriously complicates Havana’s 
access  to  external  loans  and  generally  accepted  ways 
of  paying  for  export  and  import  operations,  which 
significantly  reduces  Cuba’s  purchasing  power  and 
hinders its trade growth.
In the area of goods, the embargo imposes stringent 
restrictions  with  regard  to  complex  technological 
systems, 
for  which  United  States-manufactured 
components may not exceed 25 per cent. This particularly 
affects  equipment  for  oil  drilling,  information  and 
communications technology, aviation and cutting-edge 
medical technologies, among other things.
Cuba’s lack of free access to the investment market 
is  a  major  obstacle  to  its  development  of  trade  and 
economic relations. Despite one-off investments from 
individual,  mostly  European,  companies,  a  majority 
of  States,  with  one  eye  on  the  United  States,  have  so 
far  refrained  from  large-scale  cooperation  with  Cuba 
in  this  area.  The  lack  of  major  systemic  investments 
in  the  island’s  energy,  transport,  logistics  and  port 
infrastructure  is  a  significant  brake  on  the  Cuban 
economy’s  development.  We  hope  that  under  the 
current  United  States  Administration  the  process  of 
normalizing  Cuban-American  relations  will  not  be 
frozen  or  reversed.  We  assume  that  the  accumulated 
positives from the rapprochement between Washington 
and  Havana  will  be  maintained  and  will  receive 
substantive  development  in  terms  of  resolving  the 
fundamental  issues  in  their  bilateral  relations  on  an 
equal and mutually respectful basis.
Today the Russian Federation will once again vote 
in  support  of  the  draft  resolution  (A/73/L.3),  which 
demands  that  the  blockade  be  fully  lifted.  The  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  calls  for  equal 
and fair treatment of all members of the international 
community, leaving none behind. It is essential that we 
lend a helping hand to those in particular need of our 
support. We call on everyone here to show solidarity with 
the Cuban people in their struggle for equal conditions 
for ensuring their socioeconomic development, and to 
vote in favour of the draft resolution.
Mr. Gómez Camacho (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
It is extremely important for Mexico to be participating 
in today’s discussion and reaffirming our commitment 
to ensuring that international relations foster economic 
growth, social development and the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes  within  a  framework  of  mutual  respect.  In 
that conviction, we supported the essential process of 
normalizing  relations  that  we  saw  between  Cuba  and 
the United States in recent years.
Mexico reiterates its rejection of unilateral action 
against  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  including  the  more 
than five decades of an economic, trade and financial 
embargo that runs counter to international law and to 
the  maintenance  of  friendly  and  cooperative  relations 
between  States.  We  also  reject  the  implementation  of 
discriminatory national trade laws designed to produce 
extraterritorial  effects.  We  hope  for  a  resumption  of 
the necessary dialogue between the United States and 
Cuba.  We  continue  to  believe  that  relations  between 
neighbours  on  the  American  continent  will  benefit 
from  building  ties  that  correspond  to  today’s  major 
and  deep-rooted  interactivity  between  peoples  and 
understanding  between  Governments,  for  which  we 
need  greater  openness  and  a  freer  flow  of  people, 
goods, technologies and ideas.
Mexico firmly believes that ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  would  enable 
Cuba to improve its people’s standard of living, since 
it  would  have  access  to  the  international  financial 
system,  like  any  other  State,  as  well  as  greater  flows 
of trade and investment, which would benefit the entire 
region. It would also enable it to make progress in the 
comprehensive  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and 
its  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Despite the adverse circumstances 
that the country has faced for more than 50 years, Cuba 
has  high  levels  of  human  development,  as  recently 
acknowledged  in  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme’s  2018  Regional  Human  Development 
Report  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  Its 
achievements in the areas of universal and free access 
to basic services, the eradication of poverty and putting 
an end to hunger are impressive.
The peoples of Mexico and Cuba share a historical 
and  intimate  relationship  that  has  been  strengthened 
through flexible, serious and trusting political dialogue, 
a  broad  and  solid  legal  framework  and  a  growing 
exchange  of  trade  and  investment  that  has  revitalized 
our  agenda  through  issues  of  common  interest,  based 
on  realities  in  both  countries.  Mexico  will  continue 
to support the Government of Cuba’s actions aimed at 
updating its model of economic and social development 
and  to  closely  monitor  the  process  of  constitutional 
reform  under  way  that  seeks  to  adapt  Cuba  to  new 
18-35065
13/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
times  and  new  needs.  The  embargo  does  nothing  to 
foster change.
Mr.  Ma  Zhaoxu  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
China welcomes the presence of  Mr. Bruno Eduardo 
Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Cuba.
We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made 
earlier by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development sets 
out an overall plan for global sustainable development, 
opening a new era and charting a clear path for national 
development  and  international  cooperation.  We  have 
now  entered  the  third  year  of  its  implementation,  but 
the  progress  that  has  been  made  in  implementing  the 
goals  of  primary  concern  to  developing  countries, 
such as the eradication of poverty, gives no cause for 
optimism.  All  countries  should  uphold  the  principles 
of mutual understanding, joint development and shared 
results,  with  an  awareness  that  we  are  part  of  one 
community  with  a  shared  future  for  humankind.  We 
must jointly tackle our common challenges, create new 
opportunities,  seek  new  momentum  for  development, 
complement  one  another’s  advantages  and  achieve 
win-win  results,  and  do  all  of  that  with  a  heightened 
sense of urgency. Against that backdrop, the economic 
blockade and sanctions regime imposed by the United 
States on Cuba should cease immediately.
For  26  consecutive  years,  the  General  Assembly 
has  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority  the  annual 
resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”,  which  calls 
on all countries to abide by the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  norms  of  international  law  and  to 
revoke  or  abolish  any  laws  or  measures  that  have 
extraterritorial  effects  on  the  sovereignty  of  other 
States,  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or  persons 
under  those  States’  jurisdictions  and  on  freedom  of 
trade  and  navigation.  For  many  years,  however,  there 
has  regrettably  been  no  effective  implementation  of 
those  resolutions,  and  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo that the United States has imposed 
on Cuba remains in place to this day. That runs counter 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  and  the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  Assembly,  causing  huge 
economic  and  financial  losses  to  Cuba.  It  hampers 
the  efforts  of  the  Cuban  people  to  eradicate  poverty 
and  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  and 
undermines their right to life and development, as well 
as  adversely  affecting  normal  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  exchanges  between  other  countries  and 
Cuba.  China  consistently  advocates  for  respecting 
countries’ right to choose their own social systems and 
development paths independently, and we are opposed 
to  the  imposition  of  unilateral  sanctions  on  other 
countries,  whether  by  military,  political,  economic  or 
other means.
China  always  strictly  abides  by  and  implements 
the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly. 
China  and  Cuba  have  maintained  economic  trade 
and  personnel  exchanges.  Our  friendly  and  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation  in  all  fields  continues  to  move 
ahead.  This  is  in  line  with  the  wishes  of  the  peoples 
of China and Cuba and promotes Cuba’s economic and 
social development.
The  world  today  is  undergoing  profound  changes 
such  as  have  not  been  seen  in  100  years.  Peace, 
development,  cooperation  and  win-win  benefits  have 
become  the  leitmotif  of  our  time.  Exchanges  based 
on  maintaining  an  equal  footing  between  nations  and 
cooperation for mutual benefit represent a major trend. 
Dialogues  between  equals  and  friendly  consultations 
are the best way to resolve differences.
In  recent  years,  the  United  States  and  Cuba  have 
resumed  their  diplomatic  relations,  taking  important 
steps to normalize relations between the two countries. 
China  hopes  that  they  will  continue  to  advance  this 
process and that the United States will completely end 
its  embargo  policy  against  Cuba  as  soon  as  possible. 
Both parties should move with the historical trends of 
our  times  by  developing  normal  inter-State  relations 
in accordance with the purposes of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  the  basic  norms  of  international 
relations. That will also serve the common interests of 
the two countries and their peoples, advance peace and 
stability throughout the Americas and contribute to the 
common development of the international community.
China  will  once  again  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  (A/73/L.3)  submitted  by  Cuba  under  the 
agenda item entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  is  grateful  for  the 
report of the Secretary-General (A/73/85).
14/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered 
by  the  representatives  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, and El Salvador, 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States.
At the outset, we would like to welcome the presence 
here today of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and his delegation.
The economic, commercial and financial blockade 
of  Cuba  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most  important  issues 
on  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations,  given  that  it 
encapsulates the very raison d’être and meaning of our 
Organization,  as  well  as  the  challenges  that  threaten 
it.  Under  the  blockade  of  Cuba,  we  have  seen  the 
principles of respect for the sovereignty, equality and 
self-determination  of  peoples  systematically  violated 
for more than half a century. With the blockade of Cuba, 
the importance of resolving our differences within the 
framework of a common rules-based order for all States 
has been ignored with impunity.
For  more 
than  26  consecutive  years, 
the 
international  community  has  almost  unanimously 
reaffirmed the importance of ending the United States 
blockade  of  Cuba.  However,  for  the  twenty-seventh 
time,  we  are  meeting  here  again  to  demand  that  a 
single  country,  the  United  States  of  America,  refrain 
from  applying  unilateral  measures  and  comply  with 
the  obligations  and  commitments  it  assumed  upon 
becoming  a  State  Member  of  our  Organization.  How 
can it not be significant that one of the most powerful 
Members of the United Nations, a permanent member 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  host  country  of  our 
Organization,  refuses  to  comply  with  the  obligations 
inherent in its participation within it? It is time for the 
General  Assembly  and  the  United  Nations  to  enforce 
the decisions that their membership has determined.
The  United  States  blockade  of  Cuba  is  illegal 
because  it  violates  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and the international laws that govern us all. It is unjust 
because  it  affects  Cuba’s  development,  financial  and 
banking  operations,  foreign  trade  and  industry.  It  is 
immoral  because  it  affects  the  health,  nutrition  and 
education of the Cuban people.
The United States blockade of Cuba must be lifted. 
We have been repeating this for 27 years in this Hall 
and  have  often  been  met  with  silence  in  response.  At 
other  times,  we  have  seen  measures  intensified  and 
strengthened, hindering Cuba’s legitimate development 
aspirations  and  undermining  the  human  rights  of  the 
Cuban  people.  For  that  reason,  it  is  truly  cynical  to 
try  to  distort  the  meaning  of  today’s  draft  resolution 
presented  by  Cuba  (A/73/L.3),  which  refers  to  the 
fulfilment  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
respect for human rights, in both of which Cuba is an 
example for all humankind.
We  will  not  use  this  opportunity  to  go  into  great 
detailabout  the  clear  achievements  of  Cuba  in  these 
fields, evidenced by a free, healthy, cultured, educated 
and  participatory  population.  We  prefer  to  dedicate 
these  few  minutes  to  paying  homage  to  the  spirit  of 
solidarity  of  that  small  island,  which,  despite  all  its 
difficulties  and  the  criminal  blockade  it  endures,  has 
been able to provide disinterested help to the rest of the 
world in the fields of medicine, education, technology, 
sport and art and culture.
When  racism  and  colonialism  subjugated  our 
brothers  in  Africa,  Cuba  was  there.  When  illiteracy 
plagued  many  of  our  peoples,  Cuba  was  there.  When 
Ebola,  malaria  and  other  diseases  attack  the  poorest 
on  our  planet,  Cuba  is  there.  When  hurricanes  strike 
our  brothers  in  the  Caribbean,  Cuba  is  there.  When 
earthquakes  hit  our  brothers  in  Asia,  Cuba  is  there. 
Most importantly, Cuba is there to set an example with 
dignity  and  the  unwavering  strength  that  serves  as  a 
guide for us all and keeps hope alive.
I  urge  members  to  look  around,  to  look  at  what 
happens in our Organization and to see what is taking 
place  in  every  aspect  of  our  work.  A  deliberate  and 
calculated  attack  is  being  waged  on  multilateralism. 
Let them see what happened with the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  and  what  is  happening  with 
the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration,  the  attacks  on  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  the  Human  Rights  Council,  on  agreements 
on  denuclearization  and  disarmament,  the  unilateral 
military actions, the threats of the use of force against 
Member  States  and  the  proliferation  of  unilateral 
sanctions.  We  are  not  talking  only  about  Cuba  today 
but  about  the  entire  multilateral  system,  which  is 
under threat.
What should we do? We must fight. We must fight 
to  defend  the  multilateral  system,  the  United  Nations 
and  international  law.  We  must  strive  to  defend  the 
principles and purposes that unite us as an international 
community. Only by winning that fight will we be able 
18-35065
15/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
to  give  succeeding  generations  the  possibility  of  a 
better future.
Cuba is still perfectly described today in the words 
that Commander Ernesto “Che” Guevara used in right 
of reply in this very Hall 54 years ago:
“The whole Cuban people trembles with indignation 
whenever  an  injustice  is  committed,  not  only  in 
America, but anywhere in the world.” (A/PV.1300, 
para. 57).
Here  we  can  say  what  we  have  said  so  many  times 
before,  as  expressed  by  José  Martí:  “Every  real  man 
should  feel  on  his  cheek  the  slap  that  another  man 
receives on his cheek”. That is how the Cuban people 
feel as a whole. The intent is to deliver a slap in the face 
of that small, united island, that great, dignified island. 
And it is up to all of us to tremble with indignation, feel 
the slap in our own face, denounce injustice once more 
and demand that the illegal, unjust, immoral blockade 
by the United States of Cuba be ended once and for all.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  We  have  heard  the 
statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Egypt,  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  Venezuela,  on 
behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries 
(NAM),  and  Morocco,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African  States.  They  all  spoke  up  on  our  behalf,  and 
my country, of course, aligns itself with the statements 
of all those groups.
annual 
adoption 
by 
The 
continuing 
an 
overwhelming majority of the members of the General 
Assembly of a resolution calling for the lifting of the 
blockade  against  Cuba  is  a  message  that  cannot  be 
ignored.  It  reflects  the  strong  and  steadfast  support 
and  desire  of  the  international  community  to  put 
an  end  to  the  unjustified,  unnecessary  and  harmful 
embargo  that  has  now  been  imposed  on  Cuba  for  six 
decades.  Algeria  will  continue  to  speak  up  and  voice 
its  opposition  to  all  our  friends  on  the  continued 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  of  our 
sister  country  of  Cuba  and  its  strengthening.  Those 
unjustified sanctions not only exacerbate the sufferings 
of  the  Cuban  people  by  depriving  them  of  their  basic 
rights, they also obstruct Cuba’s economic development 
and hamper its efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
I want to recall that my country has always stressed 
that Cuba, like any other Member State, has the right to 
freedom of trade and navigation and to expand trade, 
on a mutually agreed basis, with any economic partner. 
Algeria has always fully shared NAM’s position, which 
regularly  rejects  the  imposition  of  unilateral  acts  or 
extraterritorial  regulations  impeding  the  development 
of any country, as well as all forms of coercive economic 
and trade measures, and reflects unwavering principles 
of Algeria’s foreign policy.
Let  me  add  that  Algeria  considers  Cuba  to  be 
more  than  a  friend.  That  country  stood  by  us  in  dire 
times. Cubans have expressed such solidarity in many 
parts  of  the  world.  I  would  like  to  acknowledge,  as  a 
notable  example,  the  commitment  and  the  undeniable 
expertise that Cuban doctors have always demonstrated 
well  beyond  their  borders.  For  example,  when  many 
looked the other way, Cuban doctors went to fight the 
Ebola  crisis  in  western  parts  of  Africa.  They  did  so 
on  behalf  and  for  the  sake  of  the  whole  international 
community,  with  no  payback  whatsoever,  and  they 
were praised afterwards by the whole membership and 
the international community.
Today  more  than  ever,  it  is  important  to  rebuild 
the momentum and advance the positive achievements 
that  we  have  all  witnessed  in  recent  years  in  the 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America.  Engaging  in  a  constructive  and  respectful 
bilateral  dialogue,  in  full  respect  for  the  principles 
of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  will  certainly  pave  the  way  solidly  for  the 
full  normalization  of  relations  between  Cuba  and 
the  United  States  and  lead  to  the  lifting  of  the  long-
standing, unnecessary embargo, to the mutual benefit 
of the peoples of both countries, the region and beyond 
it the whole world.
Ms.  King  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines):  I 
come to the rostrum today to reiterate our well-known 
position  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3,  as 
presented by the Cuban delegation.
We align ourselves fully with the statements made 
earlier  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the Group of 77 
and China, and the Community of Latin American and 
Caribbean States.
Since  1992,  the  United  Nations  has  called  for  an 
end  to  the  embargo  through  this  annual  resolution, 
and today the urgent importance of ending it remains. 
The embargo is inhumane, a violation of international 
law,  an  example  of  unilateral  action  and  contrary  to 
16/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
the Charter of the United Nations and the principle of 
non-interference in domestic affairs.
No  country  in  this  Hall  has  the  right  to  tell  the 
United  States  how  to  conduct  its  foreign  policy,  who 
its friends should be or how to determine its national 
interests.  Even  if  such  a  right  existed,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines  would  not  presume  to  exercise 
it  against  its  cherished  friend  and  neighbour  to  the 
north, the United States, with which we enjoy excellent 
cooperation. But every country in this Hall is obligated 
by  the  Charter  to  oppose  instances  where  national 
foreign  policy  decisions  morph  into  violations  of 
international law or sustained disregard of the Charter 
principles of sovereign equality and non-interference in 
the domestic affairs of States.
Every attempt to justify this embargo has failed to 
convince 191 Member States. It is an affront to us all 
that the legislature of one country can make a decree 
on the trade matters of another, thereby affecting third 
countries.  The  ever-shifting  allegations  of  one  State 
about another are not sufficient grounds for imposing 
an embargo or sanctions of any kind. Rather, this is a 
matter that we must discuss and decide on here at the 
United Nations.
In  the  meantime,  we  have  begun  the  process 
of  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, which has set goals to guide the creation 
of the future we want, and which aims to leave no one 
behind. We, the peoples of the international community, 
are  determined  to  take  bold  and  transformative  steps 
to shift the world onto a sustainable and resilient path. 
What place, then, does this embargo have in our modern 
world? And in an interconnected world of open borders 
and  the  free  movement  of  people,  goods  and  capital, 
how can the champions and architects of globalization 
simultaneously  legislate  the  isolation  of  one  State  or 
place extraterritorial restrictions on commerce, global 
trade and the movement of individuals?
It is counterintuitive to impose an unjust obstacle 
to Cuba’s development, on the one hand, while on the 
other criticizing Cuba in its noble efforts to implement 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  As  we  all  know, 
the implementation of the Goals is a work in progress 
across the board, and we caution against invoking the 
Goals  in  an  attempt  to  score  geopolitical  points.  The 
fact remains that despite the embargo, Cuba has made 
tremendous development gains.
In  addition,  Cuba  has  remained  a  staunch  and 
abiding  partner  in  the  development  of  our  country, 
even  in  times  of  global  hardship.  Cuban  universities 
have graduated many hundreds of Vincentian students 
and are currently hosting even more, free of charge. Its 
surgeons  have  performed  operations  on  thousands  of 
Vincentian patients, without charging them a penny. Its 
doctors have brought quality medical care and expertise 
to  the  most  remote  areas  of  our  country,  and  etched 
in  the  recent  memory  of  Vincentians  are  the  Cuban 
engineers, architects and workers who laboured to build 
us a modern hospital and our first international airport.
We  consider  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  to  be  a 
prerequisite of any meaningful rapprochement between 
Cuba and the United States, not a negotiated end result. 
While in the past there have been positive indications 
of  flexibility,  there  have  recently  been  reminders  of 
unilateral  rigidity.  Nevertheless,  we  remain  hopeful 
that the position of the overwhelming majority of States 
on that matter will be heard, and we encourage Member 
States to remain in solidarity with the Government and 
the people of Cuba.
In that context, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
reiterates  its  unequivocal  call  for  the  removal  of  that 
absurd  embargo  and  unstintingly  supports  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.3,  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba,  as 
originally presented by the Cuban delegation.
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  for 
the  recent  report  compiled  by  the  Secretary-General 
(A/73/85),  which  demonstrates  the  strong  position 
taken by States and international organizations on the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba.
We offer our warm welcome to Mr. Bruno Eduardo 
Rodríguez Parrilla, the Foreign Minister of Cuba, and 
his  delegation.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  reaffirm  Iran’s  full  support  for  the  people  and 
the  Government  of  Cuba  against  the  long-lasting, 
unilaterally imposed, unlawful and immoral embargo.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made earlier on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries, the Group of 77 and China, and the States 
members  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation. 
18-35065
17/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
However, i would also like to add the following remarks 
in my national capacity.
Undoubtedly, 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  blockade  of  Cuba  is  the  most  unjust  and 
longest-lasting example of unilateral sanctions imposed 
on a country in the modern history of our world, and 
a  vivid  example  of  the  unilateral  way  in  which  the 
United States acts in the world. In fact, the behaviour 
and one-track mindset of some of that country’s high-
ranking  officials  keep  them  increasingly  isolated 
from 
today’s  multilateral  world. 
The  United  States 
long-standing  obstinacy  and 
pathological  tendency  to  impose  unilateral  sanctions, 
particularly  under  the  current  Administration,  which 
pursues  the  obsolete  policies  of  the  Cold  War,  have 
inflicted  enormous  damage  on  every  sector  of  the 
Cuban  economy  and  caused  the  Cuban  people  untold 
hardship by preventing them from fully enjoying their 
human rights.
the  realities  of 
The strengthening of the extraterritorial application 
of the blockade and the intensification of that policy have 
had  profound  adverse  effects  on  Cuba’s  international 
financial and loan relations. The blockade constitutes a 
massive, flagrant and systematic violation of the human 
rights of all Cuban people. It violates the Charter of the 
United Nations and international law and constitutes an 
obstacle to international cooperation.
Regrettably,  in  the  twenty-first  century,  United 
States officials still use and resort to hostile rhetoric in 
the spirit of the Cold War, instead of learning lessons 
from  their  short-sighted  and  disastrous  policies  on 
Cuba and in our region, the Middle East.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  which  has  been 
subjected  to  the  unilateral  coercive  measures  of 
the  United  States  for  more  than  37  years,  including 
unprecedented  economic  and  financial  sanctions, 
fully  shares  the  valid  concerns  of  the  Government  of 
Cuba,  which  is  suffering  from  the  recklessness  and 
disregard of the United States for international values 
and institutions. Enjoying a close relationship with the 
Cuban  people,  the  Iranian  people  have  demonstrated 
their  unwavering  resilience  during  the  past  37  years, 
despite the difficulties and constraints that the sanctions 
have created.
In  that  context,  I  must  point  out  how  the  United 
States  is  addicted  to  the  imposition  of  sanctions 
as  an  instrument  to  achieve  its  bilateral  goals.  The 
conclusion of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
in  2015  between  Iran  and  the  5+1  group,  which  was 
endorsed  by  Security  Council  resolution  2231  (2015) 
and  adopted  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, is a good example of the fact that the 
United States is a perfidious player on the international 
scene. Resolution 2231 (2015) was supposed to put an 
end to the sanctions imposed on Iran. It is tragic that 
the United States, a permanent member of the Security 
Council  and  one  of  the  principal  negotiators  of  and 
parties to the agreement and the drafting of the Council 
resolution, is now punishing and threatening sovereign 
States, not for violating but for abiding by a Security 
Council resolution.
The  economic  war  that  the  United  States  has 
initiated  under  the  rubric  of  new  sanctions  not  only 
targets  the  Iranian  public  but  also  has  harmful 
repercussions  for  the  peoples  of  other  countries,  and 
has disrupted the state of global trade. The reimposition 
by the United States of sanctions against Iran, after its 
unilateral withdrawal, has shown that the United States 
is utterly untrustworthy and that it is a colossal mistake 
to count on its commitments.
The message of today’s meeting is a reaffirmation 
of  the  fact  that  the  time  for  interventionist  policies 
and  interference  in  the  farthest  reaches  of  the  world 
is  long  over.  The  era  of  coups  d’état,  invasions  and 
destabilization  and  the  policies  of  walls,  sanctions 
and  aggression  that  threaten  the  peace  and  security 
of  the  world  are  over.  The  message  being  sent  today 
through  our  unanimous  condemnation  of  unilateral 
coercive  measures,  particularly  unilateral  embargoes 
and  sanctions,  is  that  the  preservation  of  interests 
and  security  in  the  world,  in  the  least  costly  manner, 
is  possible  only  through  cooperation,  solidarity  and 
coordination  among  countries 
the  framework 
of multilateralism.
in 
However, it is unfortunate that we are witnessing 
the rise of rulers in the world who think they can secure 
their  interests  better  —  or  at  least,  in  the  short-term, 
ride public sentiments and gain popular support — by 
fomenting extremist nationalism and racism, as well as 
by trampling global rules and undermining international 
institutions.  Confronting  multilateralism  by  resorting 
to  unilateral  actions,  including  the  imposition  of  an 
embargo  and  sanctions,  is  not  a  sign  of  strength.  It 
is  rather  a  symptom  of  intellectual  weakness  and 
betrays  an  inability  to  understand  a  complex  and 
interconnected world.
18/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
Mrs.  Taremba 
(Zimbabwe):  My  delegation 
aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representatives  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
77 and China, Venezuela, on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries, and Morocco, on behalf of 
the Group of African States. Let me begin by thanking 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/73/85),  which 
has  once  again  highlighted  the  widespread  negative 
impacts  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba.
Two  years  ago,  when  we  considered  this  agenda 
item (see A/71/PV.32), it seemed as if we might be on 
the cusp of a great moment in history, where one of the 
most unjust vestiges of a troubled history might finally 
be on the verge of resolution. At that time, Zimbabwe 
joined  many  Member  States  in  commending  what  we 
hoped was the first of many steps to be taken towards 
normalizing  relations  between 
the  United  States 
and Cuba.
Sadly,  the  developments  since  April  2017  have 
dashed  the  optimism  of  that  time.  We  are  very 
disheartened  by  the  fact  that  at  a  time  when  we  all 
should be joining hands to promote the eradication of 
poverty and the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, some of us are devising 
more  stringent  ways  to  keep  a  sovereign  country 
from  realizing  its  right  to  development  and  ensuring 
that  its  citizens  are  not  left  behind  as  the  rest  of  the 
world prospers. In a globalized world, where progress 
is  spurred  by  increased  collaboration  and  people-to-
people contact, it is sad and somewhat incomprehensible 
that so much capital would be expended to perpetuate 
the economic, commercial and financial isolation of a 
small developing country and its people.
Zimbabwe  reaffirms  its  condemnation  of  the 
promulgation  and  application  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures  that  have  an  extraterritorial  impact.  Such 
measures  are  contrary  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and run counter to the principle of the sovereign 
equality of States and non-interference in their domestic 
affairs.  Furthermore,  they  undermine  international 
trade  regulations  and  practices  and  interfere  with  the 
right of third-party countries and private entities to take 
their own decisions on trading with affected countries.
On  that  basis,  Zimbabwe  stands  firmly  with  the 
vast  majority  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  in  opposing  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  The  embargo  is  the 
single  biggest  obstacle  to  socioeconomic  progress  in 
Cuba, as well as the achievement of the 2030 Agenda. It 
is also an unacceptable violation of the human rights of 
Cuban nationals, as well as a threat to their aspirations 
for prosperity.
While the world has been advancing and economies 
have been modernizing and developing, Cuba has been 
kept shackled for 60 years and its development hindered 
on the basis of an outdated policy that belongs to the 
past. It is time that that unjust embargo was consigned 
to  the  annals  of  history  where  it  belongs.  We  are 
convinced that relations between the States concerned 
will greatly benefit from a move towards policies that 
are relevant today, not those based on a past that should 
be consigned to dusty history tomes.
Given Cuba’s willingness to engage in dialogue, we 
encourage reciprocal steps from the other side for the 
benefit of both peoples and the international community 
as a whole.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statements  delivered  by  the  representatives  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the 
Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  and  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and China.
My  delegation  would  like  to  make  the  following 
remarks  in  our  national  capacity.  At  the  outset,  I 
welcome our dear friend, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba.  His  friendly 
country, Cuba, should fully trust that the Syrian Arab 
Republic will continue to support the steadfastness of 
the Cuban people and Government as they deal with the 
unjust blockade imposed on them by the United States 
since 1962.
Syria will not forget that its friends and brothers in 
Cuba have stood by its side in the face of the terrorist 
war  that  we  have  been  subjected  to  for  the  past  eight 
years. Syria will not forget that Cuba has continued to 
support its position in the face of the Israeli occupation 
of  the  Syrian  Arab  Golan.  My  country  takes  pride  in 
the fact that many of its men and women have received 
education in medicine and engineering at well-known 
Cuban  universities  that  continue  to  be  a  beacon  of 
science and knowledge despite the unjust United States 
blockade, which has continued for almost six decades.
18-35065
19/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
My  country  fully  and  unconditionally  supports 
draft resolution A/73/L.3 and believes that its contents, 
especially its operative paragraphs, reflect the position 
of the United Nations, which rejects unilateral coercive 
economic  measures,  since  they  constitute  a  collective 
punishment  imposed  on  the  entire  population  and 
undermine the United Nations system while infringing 
on  its  privileges.  In  addition,  they  constitute  an 
obstacle  to  the  achievement  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Developmen,  impede  international 
commercial  exchange  and  are  an  obstacle  to  people’s 
enjoyment of their human rights, as described in human 
rights instruments.
We in the Syrian Arab Republic, a people who have 
suffered for many decades as a result of such unilateral 
coercive  economic  measures,  will  continue  to  pose  a 
moral question about how the representatives of certain 
countries  can  call  from  the  rostrums  of  the  United 
Nations for the accelerated implementation of the goals 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and for 
no one to be left behind, while their own Governments 
impose unilateral coercive economic measures against 
Cuba, Syria, Iran, Venezuela, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Palestine,  the  Russian  Federation 
and China, among other countries.
Today we are only 12 years away from the deadline 
for the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals. No one can argue that the economic embargoes 
that  certain  Governments  have  imposed  on  many 
countries around the world do not directly obstruct their 
goal of achieving socioeconomic development. On that 
basis,  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
its Charter, its resolutions and the 2030 Agenda, is now 
at  stake,  particularly  given  that  last  year,  191  States 
Members of the United Nations gave the Organization 
an  unconditional  and  absolute  mandate  to  put  a  final 
and  irreversible  end  to  the  unjust  economic  embargo 
that has been imposed on the Cuban people for the past 
56 years (see A/72/PV.38). That mandate has witnessed 
dissent  only  from  the  United  States  and  its  minion, 
Israel.
We owe the Cuban people and their leadership and 
Government a debt. Our friend Cuba has always taken 
the side of right, justice and equality. It has responded 
to calls for medical and humanitarian assistance from 
all over the world. No one can forget the role that their 
doctors  and  citizens  played  in  combating  the  Ebola 
epidemic on the African continent, when doctors from 
other Western States were fleeing Africa because they 
were afraid to confront the disease. Meanwhile, Cuba 
sent hundreds of doctors to deal with the epidemic.
We  must  all  remember  that  this  historic  country 
has continued to progress despite the challenges of the 
embargo.  It  has  continued  to  propagate  science  and 
modern  medical  technology  throughout  the  world.  In 
most cases, Cuba has provided its services to the peoples 
of the world while asking nothing in return in order to 
prove that the will of a free people cannot be crushed, 
thereby  exposing  the  false  allegations  that  certain 
Governments  use  to  impose  economic  embargoes  on 
other countries.
More  precisely,  everyone  knows  that  it  is  the 
Governments  of  States  that  have  economic,  political 
and  military  clout  that  impose  unilateral  sanctions. 
That  clout  makes  them  believe  that  they  can  punish 
countries that oppose their policies of global domination 
or  their  deceitful  attempts  to  sway  international 
opinion  on  the  pretext  of  defending  human  rights  or 
combating terrorism. At the same time, those powerful 
Governments  grant  protection  to  the  most  vicious 
dictatorships  in  the  world.  They  shield  sponsors  of 
terrorism and provide political and military support for 
the Israeli occupation of Palestine and Arab territories.
My country categorically rejects draft amendments 
A/73/L.9 to A/73/L.16, submitted by the United States 
delegation to draft resolution A/73/L.3, which is before 
us  today.  We  believe  that  the  only  reason  to  propose 
those  draft  amendments  is  to  impede  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly,  undermine  the  unified  position 
against  the  economic  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  and 
challenge  the  consensus  that  is  opposed  only  by  the 
United States and Israel. Above all, the party that has 
submitted the draft amendments is not morally, legally 
or politically qualified to talk about human rights either 
in Cuba or any other country in the world.
From a technical perspective, the draft amendments 
do  not  fall  within  the  context  of  the  agenda  item 
under consideration or the main objective of the draft 
resolution,  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba. Moreover, they 
include  unacceptable  language  and  attempt  to  set  a 
serious precedent in the history of the United Nations. 
The party submitting the amendments seeks to justify 
the economic embargo that it imposes on Cuba, and to 
establish a false legal basis for the unilateral coercive 
economic  measures  that  it  has  imposed  on  many 
20/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
countries and peoples throughout the world. Its idiotic 
attempt has been exposed, and we do not think anyone 
in the Hall has been swayed by its deception.
The  periodic  reports  of  the  Secretary-General 
and the information and assessments that they include 
on  the  damages  and  losses  caused  by  the  unilateral 
coercive economic measures imposed on Cuba prompt 
us  today  to  discuss  a  new  approach  that  goes  beyond 
simply calling for an end to the economic embargo on 
Cuba.  Instead,  we  call  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Organization’s  recommendations  for  seeking  justice 
and  compensation  for  the  victims  of  those  measures 
and establishing an international register of unilateral 
measures that affect human rights. We also support the 
idea of issuing a declaration by the General Assembly 
on unilateral measures and the rule of law.
Syria  therefore  calls  on  the  General  Assembly 
to  establish  effective  mechanisms  to  put  an  end  to 
hostile policies of embargoes and unilateral economic 
measures, which are of course a violation of international 
law. We call for the Governments of Member States that 
resort  to  imposing  illegal  economic  embargoes  to  be 
held  fully  responsible,  politically,  economically  and 
financially,  for  the  economic  losses  of  the  countries 
targeted by such illegal blockades. Such measures lead 
to  the  collapse  of  vital  economic  sectors  that  provide 
basic  services  to  citizens,  particularly  in  the  areas  of 
health,  education,  nutrition,  agriculture, 
industry, 
commerce, communications and technology.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  recall  Mr.  Idriss 
Jazairy, Special Rapporteur on the negative impact of 
the  unilateral  coercive  measures  on  the  enjoyment  of 
human rights, who after a recent visit to Syria said,
“I  am  profoundly  concerned  that  unilateral 
coercive measures are contributing to the ongoing 
suffering  of  the  Syrian  people.  Claims  that  they 
exist to protect the Syrian population, or to promote 
a  democratic  transition,  are  hard  to  reconcile 
with  the  economic  and  humanitarian  suffering 
being caused.”
That  evaluation  was  made  by  a  high-level  United 
Nations representative, the Special Rapporteur on the 
negative  impact  of  unilateral  coercive  measures  on 
the enjoyment of human rights. It applies to the tragic 
circumstances  and  suffering  endured  by  all  peoples 
subjected  to  such  measures.  We  believe  that  the  time 
has  come  to  put  an  irreversible  end  to  the  policies  of 
economic sanctions that some Governments of Member 
States  adopt.  That  is  the  right  course  of  action  if  we 
are  truly  committed  to  the  principles  of  equality  and 
justice, as well as the right of all peoples of the world 
to well-being and development without discrimination 
or limitation.
Kenya  believes 
inappropriate  as 
Mr.  Amayo  (Kenya):  Kenya  would  like  to  align 
itself with the statements made by the representatives 
of  Egypt,  Venezuela  and  Morocco  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries and the Group of African States, respectively.
that  unilateral  sanctions  and 
blockades  are 
instruments  of 
international  relations  and  diplomacy.  Such  actions, 
when  applied  unilaterally,  undermine  multilateralism, 
a key value of the United Nations that we all cherish. 
Unilateral  sanctions  and  blockades  are  generally 
harmful  and  in  many  cases  politically  self-serving. 
Furthermore,  as  we  have  seen,  they  often  strengthen 
rather than weaken the targeted countries. In the long 
run,  they  tend  to  be  unsustainable  and  largely  cause 
pain and suffering to the weak and vulnerable members 
of  society.  As  the  United  Nations,  we  can  do  better 
in  holding  ourselves  to  a  higher  ideal  and  standard 
than those condoning the choice and use of unilateral 
sanctions and blockades.
The  United  Nations  should  therefore  uphold  no 
sanctions  or  blockades  that  do  not  meet  the  threshold 
of precise, swift and determinative action. It is also not 
justifiable to apply sanctions in perpetuity. That is even 
truer if they are applied against a Member State simply 
because  that  country  does  not  adhere  to  the  cultural 
values  or  political  ideals  of  another  Member  State  or 
group of States.
My  delegation  believes  that  the  time  to  end  the 
sanctions  and  blockade  against  Cuba  is  indeed  long 
past.  Let  the  people  of  Cuba  be  free  to  enjoy  the 
unhindered social and economic freedoms that the rest 
of  the  international  community  possesses.  Let  us  not 
allow sanctions and blockades, unilateral or otherwise, 
to stand in their way. The people of Cuba deserve their 
inalienable  right  to  live  in  peace  and  harmony  with 
all  of  their  neighbours  in  the  Americas.  As  a  nation 
and country that is recognized by the United Nations, 
they deserve the chance to exercise their free will on 
matters of their own self-determination. It is for those 
reasons that Kenya always votes in favour of the annual 
resolution  on  the  necessity  of  removing  that  undue 
burden on the Cuban people.
18-35065
21/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
With  the  recent  improvement  in  the  diplomatic 
relations  between  them,  we  urge  the  United  States  to 
consider lifting the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo imposed on Cuba.
Mrs.  Coye-Felson  (Belize):  We  have  addressed 
the General Assembly on this issue before and we will 
continue to return to express our unwavering support 
for Cuba and its people and our unstinting support for 
the resolutions that have been adopted year after year 
on  the  lifting  of  the  blockade  against  Cuba.  Belize 
aligns itself with the statements that have already been 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Egypt,  Venezuela,  El 
Salvador and the Bahamas, on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China,  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States and  our  own  regional  group,  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM). We  affirm  our  support 
for  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3,  based  on  the  universal 
acceptance that international law affords no exceptions 
for  violations  of  the  rule  of  law.  By  consistently  and 
overwhelmingly  rejecting  the  unilateral  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  of  Cuba  and  its 
people  as  a  violation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  law,  the  General  Assembly 
itself affirms that no-exception rule.
Belize  continues  to  engage  with  Cuba  in  a 
constructive  and  mutually  beneficial  partnership  that 
has  its  most  immediate  effect  at  the  individual  level. 
Today, 90 Cuban doctors are working all over Belize, 
helping to save lives. That is in addition to those who 
treat Belizeans with complex medical cases free of cost 
at medical facilities in Cuba. Since 1999, more than 200 
Belizeans  have  matriculated  from  Cuban  universities 
and now apply their skills at home. Many others have 
received  training  in  areas  such  as  agriculture  and 
disaster management.
We  highlight  those  cases  as  evidence  of  the 
integral  role  that  Cuba  plays  in  Belize  and  the  wider 
Caribbean, as was stated earlier by the representative 
of the Bahamas on behalf of CARICOM and has been 
echoed  by  many  other  speakers  in  this  debate.  Those 
cases are also evidence of what the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  and  Foreign  Trade  of  Belize  observed  during 
the  general  debate  as  the  failure  of  the  blockade  to 
pressure  the  Cuban  Government  into  submission  (see 
A/73/PV.15).  He  pointed  out  that  Cuba  has  been  able 
to  survive  and  thrive  to  a  degree  that  has  garnered 
international  recognition,  especially  for  its  gains  in 
public health, education and the arts.
As  a  fellow  small  island  developing  State  that 
desires  nothing  more  than  a  fair  and  equitable  global 
order with the rule of law as its guarantor, in which all 
of our peoples have equal opportunities to achieve their 
greatest potential, Belize stands in solidarity with Cuba 
and  repeats  its  urgent  call  for  lifting  the  blockade  of 
Cuba and its people.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representatives of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
Egypt  and  Singapore  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned  Countries,  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
and  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations, 
respectively. I would now like to make a few remarks in 
my national capacity.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has 
consistently believed that in an era of an interdependent 
world,  unilateral  measures  with  extraterritorial 
implications  taken  by  one  country  against  another 
country  are  not  only  contrary  to  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law 
but also affect the livelihoods of the people and hinder 
the economic and social development of the country on 
which  those  measures  are  imposed.  The  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic has therefore neither promulgated 
nor introduced such laws or measures.
We  support  draft  resolution  A/73/L.3  and  all  the 
related General Assembly resolutions that call for the 
ending  of  the  embargo  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  The 
imposition of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  apart  from  being 
contrary to the principles and purposes of the Charter 
and  international  law,  also  restricts  Cuba’s  economic 
and  social  development  and  causes  hardship  to  the 
Cuban people. We therefore call for lifting the embargo 
on Cuba, and the sooner the better.
Ms.  Ferreira  (Angola):  The  Republic  of  Angola 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States,  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, on behalf of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned  Countries,  and  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China.
Angola considers the persistence of the unilateral 
economic, commercial and financial embargo that the 
United States has imposed on Cuba for 56 years to be 
an unjust and retrograde measure that inflicts serious 
22/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
damage on the Cuban economy, with grave consequences 
for its people, especially those who are most vulnerable. 
It  has  been  an  obstacle  to  Cuba’s  full  realization  of 
economic  and  social  development,  and  consequently 
to  its  people’s  full  enjoyment  of  basic  human  rights, 
including the right to development, sustenance, health 
care and social services. That will certainly affect the 
implementation of Cuba’s national economic and social 
development  plan  and  have  a  negative  impact  on  the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Angola hoped that the normalization of diplomatic 
relations  between  the  two  countries  would  encourage 
the  United  States  authorities  to  adopt  new  measures 
aimed at ending the embargo, while respecting the right 
of  the  Cuban  people  to  freely  exercise  their  right  to 
decide their political, economic and social interests, in 
order to ensure their country’s sustainable development. 
However,  we  regret  that  in  recent  months  there  has 
been  a  setback  in  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
two  countries  and  that  the  United  States  Government 
has  decided  to  tighten  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  blockade  by  imposing  additional  obstacles 
to  the  already  limited  trade  opportunities  between 
Cuba  and  the  United  States.  We  therefore  defend  the 
position  that  dialogue  and  cooperation  between  the 
two countries should be resumed as soon as possible in 
order to overcome that setback.
Angola  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  respecting, 
preserving and promoting the principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations and the provisions of international 
law,  as  they  constitute  the  essence  of  multilateralism 
and a collective effort to maintain international peace 
and security, economic growth and respect for human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  The  embargo  is 
contrary  to  international  law  and  the  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  has  inflicted 
enormous damage on the Cuban economy. We therefore 
call  on  the  United  States  authorities  to  put  an  end  to 
their economic, commercial and financial blockade.
The  extraterritorial  nature  of  the  embargo  is 
reflected in the financial persecution of third-country 
banks and the imposition of new fines on institutions 
for violating the rules of the United States Government 
in relation to Cuba. According to the Cuban authorities, 
between April 2017 and March 2018 the embargo caused 
losses to the country amounting to $4,321,200,000.
The  progress  achieved  between  2015  and  2016 
showed that Cuba and the United States can coexist in a 
cordial way, while respecting their differences. Angola 
therefore  encourages  the  United  States  and  Cuba  to 
continue  to  build  a  relationship  based  on  dialogue, 
cooperation and mutual respect to the benefit of both 
countries and peoples. In that context, Angola supports 
and will vote in favour of draft resolution A/73/L.3, on 
ending the embargo on Cuba.
Mr.  Biang  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French):  Gabon 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representatives of Morocco, on behalf of the Group of 
African States, Egypt, on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China,  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
Gabon  has  always  voted  in  favour  of  the  annual 
resolution of which a draft has been submitted for our 
consideration today (A/73/L.3), in accordance with the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  are  founded  on  cooperation  among 
States  and  the  principle  of  non-interference  in  their 
internal affairs.
My country remains concerned about the continuing 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
on Cuba and its consequences for the Cuban population, 
including  Cubans  residing  outside  Cuba.  It  is  clear 
that  the  embargo  is  having  a  negative  impact  on  the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, in 
both Cuba and the region as a whole.
Gabon  strongly  hopes  that  the  United  Nations 
resolutions  echoing  the  collective  call  for  the  lifting 
of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
imposed on Cuba by the United States of America will 
be respected and implemented, thereby enabling Cuba 
to  participate  in  and  benefit  from  international  trade. 
It  is  important  to  preserve  the  traditional  text  of  the 
resolution adopted by the General Assembly more than 
20  years  ago  (resolution  47/19),  which  has  remained 
faithful  to  the  reality  on  the  ground  over  the  past 
26 years.
We  are  convinced  that  only  the  principles  of 
dialogue and cooperation will help to create a climate 
of  trust  and  calm  and  enable  significant  progress  to 
be  made  on  the  issue.  Gabon  therefore  maintains  its 
position  and  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.3.
18-35065
23/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
Mrs. Chen (Suriname): At the outset, we welcome 
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba here today.
Suriname aligns itself with the statements made by 
the representatives of Egypt, on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela, 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, 
Bangladesh,  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation, El Salvador, on behalf of the Community 
of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  the 
Bahamas, on behalf of the Caribbean Community.
My  delegation  disapproves  in  the  strongest  terms 
of  the  continuation  of  the  economic,  financial  and 
commercial embargo against Cuba and its people. Year 
after year, an overwhelming majority of nations takes 
a  stand  against  the  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States of America, as it impedes that sovereign nation 
in unlocking its full potential for economic and social 
development.  That  unilateral  coercive  measure,  with 
extraterritorial  implications,  is  not  in  line  with  the 
principles  of  sovereign  equality  and  non-interference 
in the internal affairs of countries that are enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations and have guided us in 
our collective commitments to achieving the peaceful 
and sustainable development of all nations.
As the blockade has been in effect for decades, it 
has caused and continues to cause the people of Cuba 
unnecessary  hardship  and  gravely  undermines  the 
country’s  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development. 
My Government regrets that the renewed continuation 
of the economic and financial blockade has set back the 
normalization of relations between Cuba and the United 
States,  which  also  negatively  affects  trade  relations 
with other nations in our region.
Suriname  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.3. By voting in favour, we join the international 
community  in  calling  on  the  United  States  to  put  an 
end  to  its  obsolete  policy  and  to  lift  the  economic, 
commercial and financial blockade of Cuba.
Mr. Mero (United Republic of Tanzania): On behalf 
of my delegation, I would like to begin by thanking the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  her  leadership 
of this session. I also want to welcome the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Morocco, on behalf of the 
Group of African States, Egypt, on behalf of Group 77 
To  put 
and China, and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
it  briefly,  Tanzania  has  consistently 
supported  the  Cuban  people  by  voting  in  favour  of 
the  annual  resolution  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo of Cuba 
on humanitarian grounds.
The  economic  and  commercial  embargo  has  a 
dampening effect on any nascent development of a the 
country and its people and on their prospects. It denies 
opportunities  to  communities  in  their  aspirations 
to  address  poverty  and  to  have  access  to  various 
opportunities related to trade, investment, financial and 
commercial activities. Cuba is a developing country that 
works hard to improve the lives of its people. Despite 
its  resolve  to  strive  for  their  development,  it  is  being 
challenged by the vagaries of climate change and more 
frequent storms, which have a negative impact on any 
prospects  for  development.  The  Cuban  people  would 
like to be connected to the United States economically 
in order to attract investment and trade opportunities. 
Those are the hopes of the new generation of Cubans, 
who are the majority. It is a fact that the embargo hurts 
ordinary people who hope that the situation will end so 
that their economic hardship improves.
In 2015, many world leaders gathered in this very 
Hall  welcomed  the  historic  and  momentous  decision 
taken by the United States and the Republic of Cuba to 
restore diplomatic relations. For most of us, it signalled 
the  beginning  of  harmonious  coexistence,  with  high 
hopes  and  expectations.  However,  with  the  passing 
of time, we believe and see that minimal efforts have 
been  made  to  meet  those  hopes  and  expectations  of 
ultimately  lifting  the  embargo  that  has  affected  the 
people of Cuba for many years. We hope that through 
the power of reason and the same diplomatic means that 
led  to  the  re-establishment  of  the  two  countries’  ties, 
there will be a complete removal of the embargo against 
Cuba and that a new dawn of cooperation will follow, 
not only for the two countries involved but for the entire 
region of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Nicaragua  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Egypt,  Venezuela 
and  El  Salvador  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China,  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, respectively.
24/26 
18-35065
31/10/2018 
A/73/PV.29
Nicaragua once again condemns the unjust embargo 
imposed on our heroic brother people of Cuba, a people 
recognized  for  their  solidarity,  internationalism  and 
willingness  to  always  serve  all  humankind.  When 
he  welcomed  the  inauguration  of  Cuban  President 
Miguel  Díaz-Canel  Bermúdez,  President  Daniel 
Ortega Saavedra of Nicaragua reaffirmed that Cuba is 
a  country  that  has  continued  to  lead  the  OurAmerica 
and Caribbean revolution, while defending sovereignty, 
dignity and a remarkable capacity for resistance and life.
It  is  an  honour  to  welcome  the  presence  of  our 
brother and friend Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  and  his 
delegation,  who,  as  always,  will  provide  us  with 
extensive  information  about  the  terrible  impact  and 
the economic, financial and commercial damage to the 
Cuban  people  that  have  resulted  from  the  imposition 
and  strengthening  of  the  embargo,  its  unilateral  and 
extraterritorial measures and all their ramifications.
According  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/73/85),  that  outdated  and  obsolete  policy  has 
translated  into  a  cost  of  more  than  $933.6  billionThe 
measures  are  pointless  and  unfounded,  especially 
in  the  context  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, which calls for no one to be left behind 
and  for  us  all  to  come  together  in  a  partnership  of 
fair cooperation and solidarity in order to achieve the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  The  Cuban 
people need us. We cannot remain silent in the face of 
such injustice.
Nicaragua  joins  the  voices  and  universal  call  of 
the international community, which has demanded an 
immediate end to the embargo of Cuba year after year. 
Today we want to send a message of hope and to stand 
in solidarity with Cuba’s more than 11 million people by 
saying clearly that Cuba is not alone. Today and always, 
we are united as brothers and sisters through the love, 
strength  and  courage  of  our  peoples.  Our  solidarity 
with  Cuba  will  continue  until  the  immoral  embargo 
ends.  Nicaragua  will  always  remain  unconditionally 
at  Cuba’s  side  to  jointly  build  a  better  world.  The 
hatred,  interference  and  embargo  must  stop.  We  have 
had  enough  of  unilateral  economic,  financial  and 
commercial coercive measures being used as political 
instruments  and  weapons  to  put  pressure  on  and 
subjugate our peoples, while preventing the attainment 
of the provisions of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs.
For almost 60 years, Cuba has resisted the imposition 
of these dishonourable measures that seek to hinder the 
progress of an entire people and its revolution, which 
is a symbol of dignity and an example of solidarity and 
cultural  and  scientific  development  to  the  world.  The 
embargo,  whose  purpose  is  to  create  discouragement, 
economic  dissatisfaction  and  hardship,  deny  supplies 
and bring about hunger, desperation and the overthrow 
of  the  legitimate  Cuban  Government,  has  failed.  The 
Cuban  people  will  not  surrender  or  sell  themselves. 
Their  courage  and  bravery  have  confirmed  that  for 
almost six decades. That is why, with great pride, we 
join in affirming that Cuba is respected.
At  a  time  when  the  international  community  is 
striving  to  achieve  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  and  has  agreed  on  all  the  actions  we  need  to 
counter the threat of climate change, it is inconceivable 
that  the  right  to  development  is  being  denied  to  our 
brother  people  and  Government  of  Cuba  through 
unilateral coercive and criminal measures, in order to 
fulfil imperialist agendas and political interests.
The  embargo,  whose  measures  and  scope  have 
intensified,  violating  all  the  rules  of  international 
law and the principles of international trade, peaceful 
coexistence  among  States  and  non-interference  and 
non-intervention,  has  had  a  negative  impact  on  the 
economic, social and cultural rights of the Cuban people. 
It has affected their right to development, constituting 
as it does a massive, flagrant and systematic violation of 
an entire population’s human rights. Despite the attacks 
and abuses of the embargo, which violate the Charter 
of the United Nations, Cuba remains firm and resolute. 
Its  people  and  Government  continue  to  represent  the 
dignity  and  sovereignty  of  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean peoples and the spirit of José Martí, Simón 
Bolívar and Nicaragua’s own General Sandino.
is 
Cuba 
the  embodiment  of  solidarity.  Our 
Cuban  brothers  and  sisters  have  always  led  the  way 
in  responding  to  the  needs  of  humankind  and  to 
catastrophes  and  emergency  situations  all  around  the 
world,  sharing  with  love  their  lives,  hearts,  abilities 
and  knowledge.  That  Cuban  solidarity  has  always 
supported  us  in  a  number  of  ways  in  our  Sandinista 
people’s revolution, teaching us to read, educating our 
doctors and technicians, helping to treat our illnesses 
and  creating  the  conditions  for  our  well-being  and 
happiness on Mother Earth.
18-35065
25/26
A/73/PV.29 
31/10/2018
It is time to reflect. The path to take is not one of 
imposition, arbitrary hegemony, threats or aggression or 
imposing unilateral financial and economic measures. 
It is one of unbounded respect for the inalienable rights 
of peoples, no matter how small or great they may be. 
It is one of multilateralism, friendship, understanding 
and peaceful coexistence among nations. That is how 
we can promote a culture of peace and how we all will 
gain many more friends in the world and foster peace, 
harmony and solidarity.
There is an international consensus in that regard. 
The  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, the Caribbean Community, the Group of 77 and 
China,  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and 
other groups and States have once again reiterated their 
rejection of the policy of the United States Government. 
They have reiterated their full solidarity with Cuba and 
called  for  an  immediate  end  to  the  embargo.  In  that 
call, the international community is asking for an end 
to the negative effects on Cuba’s exports and imports, 
for Cuba to be given access to international credit and 
markets, and for an end to the damage to its education 
and  health-care  systems,  which  incidentally  benefit 
us all.
its  condemnation 
in 
Nicaragua  reaffirms 
the 
strongest  terms  of  that  criminal  embargo  and  all  its 
extraterritorial  measures  and  ramifications.  We  reject 
all unilateral coercive financial and economic measures, 
which  constitute  a  real  obstacle  to  the  eradication  of 
poverty and the sustainable development of our peoples. 
We hope that as the Government of Cuba very clearly 
states,  friendly  relations  and  dialogue  under  equal 
conditions can be established and that the United States 
will  resume  the  path  begun  by  the  Administration  of 
former President Obama. But we hope that this time it 
will  move  forward  definitively  with  the  lifting  of  the 
embargo and, in addition, return to the Cuban people 
Guantánamo, their legitimate territory.
We  express  our  firm  solidarity  with  Cuba,  the 
Cuba  of  José  Martí,  Fidel  Castro  and  Raúl  Castro,  in 
these  challenging  times,  whose  extent  we  still  cannot 
measure  but  can  foresee,  anticipate  and  continue  to 
resist  by  struggling  to  overcome  them.  To  the  dear 
people  and  Government  of  Cuba,  we  echo  the  words 
of  our  Commander  Daniel  Ortega  and  Vice-President 
Comrade Rosario Murillo to Cuba’s President Miguel 
Díaz-Canel:
“We greet with affection and eternal fraternal 
recognition  the  heroic  Cuba  that  will  forever  and 
with absolute loyalty carry on the legacy of Fidel 
and Raúl”.
Nicaragua  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.3,  to  be  introduced  by  Cuba.  We  unite  our 
voices with the millions of people who, on all continents 
and in all countries — and even more so in the United 
States — chant in unison Cuba yes, embargo no.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
26/26 
18-35065
