United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
7th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 25 September 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.7
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Address by Mr. Arthur Peter Mutharika, President 
of the Republic of Malawi
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Malawi.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika, 
President of the Republic of Malawi, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Mutharika: The General Assembly is a 
representation of humankind in its fullness. I therefore 
congratulate  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Her  ascendance  to  this  seat  reminds  us  that  there  are 
no  minorities  in  the  Organization,  and  we  are  proud 
to  see  the  Assembly  led  by  a  woman  of  her  repute 
and  intellectual  prowess.  Once  again,  I  convey  to  her 
my congratulations.
Ten  days  ago,  Africa  lost  a  Malawian  who  was 
our first Ambassador to the General Assembly. David 
Rubadiri  represented  the  conscience  of  the  African 
continent  and  a  pan-African  poet  who  was  adopted 
by  East  Africa  as  its  son.  One  month  ago,  the  world 
lost  an  African  who  was  the  first  Secretary-General 
of the United Nations from black Africa. Kofi Annan 
was an African and an inspiring spirit of the world. He 
was a voice of peace, a voice for the voiceless and the 
conscience and moral arbiter of the world. He decisively 
carried  forward  the  flag  of  peace  amid  turmoil  when 
some of us were busy declaring war on peace.
Today  I  stand  to  urge  the  Assembly  to  raise  high 
that  flag  of  peace  for  which  my  brother  Kofi  Annan 
stood. I urge the Assembly to rise and march forward 
in  that  spirit  of  defending  peace.  Peace  is  a  universal 
desire. We all desire peace. It must be diligently sought 
by us all. Peace is precious. Peace is delicate. It must 
be  jealously  guarded  by  us  all.  We  cannot  sit  here  as 
a proud Assembly while out there human communities 
are being driven from their homes, forced to abandon 
their  countries  and  condemned  to  unknown  destinies 
of homeless survival. Every human needs a home. We 
cannot  be  proud  as  members  of  humankind  when  out 
there innocent children, voiceless men and vulnerable 
women  are  suffering  and  being  killed.  Every  life  is 
precious.  History  will  measure  our  global  leadership 
and the legacy of the Organization on the scales of how 
we defend the defenceless, feed the hungry and empower 
the weak. History will judge our generation on how we 
defend human life and protect this endangered planet. 
It is therefore our shared responsibility to seek peace in 
all its forms, defend peace and reach out to reason with 
those who declare war on peace.
The  relevance  of  the  Organization  rests  on  our 
ability  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  people  across  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-29775 (E)
*1829775*
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
implies  collective 
world.  That  includes  Africa,  as  I  will  argue  in  my 
conclusion.  Let  us  never  doubt  that  the  pursuit  of 
shared  responsibility 
inclusion. 
Every nation is important, and we all have something to 
offer. That is why I began my address by reminding the 
Assembly that there are no minorities here. There are 
no small nations. There are only nations in the United 
Nations. Of course, let us admit that there will always 
be  economic  inequality  among  nations  and,  yes,  we 
all  have  something  to  offer  to  humankind.  But  those 
with more resources and power must step up and offer 
more. Let us remember that power is not status; power 
is responsibility. Leadership is not prestige; leadership 
is  responsibility.  We  must  define  global  leadership  in 
terms of global responsibility.
We  are  prepared  to  fulfil  our  responsibility  and 
obligations in the global community. Malawi remains 
committed to the ideals of the United Nations. Malawi 
subscribes  to  the  values  of  democratic  governance, 
peace  and  security.  We 
to 
participating in efforts to maintain international peace 
and security. Malawi remains committed to promoting 
and protecting human rights. We remain committed to 
participating in international cooperation to resolve the 
challenges that face human societies.
remain  committed 
Malawi acknowledges the sacrifices being made by 
the Blue Helmets. The composition of the Blue Helmets 
demonstrates  the  commitment  of  the  United  Nations 
to the principle of including nations of all regions. We 
are proud to be an active contributor to peacekeeping 
operations across the world. For us, defending peace is 
a precious sacrifice. Malawi has served in peacekeeping 
missions  in  Darfur,  Lesotho  and  Côte  d’Ivoire.  As  I 
speak, we are part of the United Nations Organization 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo.
In our pursuit to promote peace, justice and effective 
institutions, I would like to announce that in 2019 a high-
level political forum on Sustainable Development Goal 
16 will convene in Malawi. I welcome the opportunity 
and honour of hosting the forum. I believe that the event 
will be a significant catalyst to our resolve to achieve 
Sustainable Development Goal 16.
Malawi  supports  the  determination  of  the  United 
Nations  to  galvanize  international  cooperation  in 
socioeconomic  development.  We  are 
promoting 
committed 
to 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  support  the  priorities  of  the  United 
Nations  in  eradicating  poverty  and  hunger  in  all  its 
forms  and  dimensions.  The  priorities  of  the  United 
Nations  are  also  Malawi’s  priorities,  and  we  will  not 
relent until we have accomplished the full hierarchy of 
our priorities.
We  are  proud  of  our  efforts  and  achievements  in 
maternal health, girls’ education, youth empowerment 
and  gender  equality.  However,  the  plight  of  refugees 
and  migrants  is  a  concern  for  the  people  of  Malawi. 
As  Malawians,  we  believe  that  refugees  are  part 
of  our  human  family.  We  believe  in  our  collective 
responsibility to ensure refugees’ protection, safety and 
access to refuge. As a result, Malawi has been hosting 
refugees for decades.
I  would  also  like  to  report  that  this  year  Malawi 
received  a  high-level  delegation  from  the Office  of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
We  are  actively  part  of  the  initiative  to  develop  a 
comprehensive  refugee  response  framework, which 
was agreed by States Members. We have developed the 
concept  for  the  framework  that  is  to  be  rolled  out  in 
Malawi within our national development strategy and 
our cooperation agreement with the United Nations.
On  another  matter,  Malawi  is  both  a  victim  and 
a  fighter  of  climate  change.  The  consequences  of 
climate  change  are  real,  devastating  and  often  tragic 
on a large scale. For that reason, I would like to urge 
all Governments, business leaders, investors and civil 
society  to  fight  to  bend  the  curve  of  carbon  dioxide 
emissions  by  2020  and  to  meet  the  goals  of  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change.
We  must  move  to  accelerate  the  green  transition, 
create  more  jobs  and  provide  sustainable  transport 
and  clean  energy  systems.  Malawi  is  doing  its  part 
by  implementing  various  disaster  risk-reduction  and 
resilience-building  initiatives,  but  we  cannot  do  it 
alone.  We  need  adequate,  predictable  and  sustainable 
resources  of  climate  financing,  such  as  the  Green 
Climate Fund, in order to support our actions.
I would also like to report that my Government is 
endeavouring to eliminate hunger and malnutrition by 
2030. Given the hostile consequences of climate change, 
food  insecurity  and  malnutrition  are  serious  threats 
in  a  country  that  still  relies  on  rain-fed  subsistence 
agriculture.
We  believe  that  inclusive  and  resilient  economic 
growth  is  key  to  overcoming  hunger  and  reducing 
2/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
poverty. In that regard, over the past four years we have 
relentlessly pursued macroeconomic measures that are 
now improving Malawi’s economy. We have stabilized 
the  economy  within  four  years  despite  the  natural 
disasters of floods, drought and hunger that hit Malawi 
for two consecutive years. Within four troubled years, 
we have reduced inflation from 24 per cent to a single 
digit percentage. We have reduced interest rates from 
25 to 16 per cent. We have taken our import cover from 
the lowest to the highest point in our economic history. 
Our import cover has risen from less than two months 
to six months. We have made the local currency stable 
and predictable.
Above all, when I began my leadership in Malawi 
four years ago, we were seeing a 2.4 per cent growth 
rate in gross domestic product. We now expect growth 
of  4  per  cent  in  our  2018-2019  financial  year,  and 
we  expect  that  to  rise  to  6  per  cent  in  2019.  We  are 
improving  those  macroeconomic indicators  because  a 
bad economy is an injustice to our country’s citizens.
At  the  same  time,  we  continue  to  focus  on  the 
justice of specific sectors of our society. We are fighting 
against  violence  against  women  and  girls.  I  believe 
that no human society can meaningfully develop while 
marginalizing its women. Development must always be 
inclusive. With the support of the United Nations and 
other development partners, particularly the European 
Union,  in  2019  Malawi  will  implement  the Spotlight 
Initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls.
I  reiterate  that  no  society  can  progress  without 
its  young  people.  Malawi  is  therefore  implementing 
a  number  of  youth  programmes,  including  a  skills 
development  programme  that  involves  establishing 
community  technical  colleges.  We  are  empowering 
young  people  with  skills  so  that  they  can  create  jobs 
and  businesses  for  themselves  and  others.  We  believe 
that  no  society  can  develop  without  a  skilled  labour 
force. Our urgent need is to train the trainers for that 
youth programme.
I would also add that Malawi believes that citizens 
of  every  nation  must  have  legal  identities.  Malawi 
has  fulfilled  that  principle.  Today,  more  than  95  per 
cent  of  my  people  aged  16  and  older  have  national 
identity cards, and we are in the process of integrating 
the  national  identity  cards  to  be  used  in  education, 
finance, agriculture, security, social welfare and other 
public institutions.
Malawi  will  always  be  a  team  player  in  the 
international  community.  We  support 
the  United 
Nations  initiatives  in  fighting  global  systemic  threats 
and challenges, including terrorism and climate change. 
We support the United Nations development system. In 
that regard, Malawi welcomes the adoption of resolution 
72/279,  on  the  repositioning  of  the  United  Nations 
development  system,  as  well  as  resolution  72/305,  on 
the review of the implementation of resolution 68/1, on 
the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council.
We strongly support the Common African Position 
calling  for  two  permanent  seats  with  veto  power  and 
five  non-permanent  seats  for  Africa  on  the  Security 
Council. Why should some nations be afraid of losing 
power  by  offering  decision-making  space  to  Africa 
if  they  do  not  lose  power  when  they  accommodate 
other continents? Is Africa that much of a threat? That 
segregation  of  Africans  must  come  to  an  end.  Why 
should we allow the Organization to be accused of the 
hypocrisy that while we preach democracy everywhere, 
we are not democratic enough to accommodate almost 
one third of the membership of the Assembly?
I would like to conclude by commending the ironic 
wisdom in the theme that was chosen for this year. Let 
us prove that we can live up to its demands. We cannot 
talk about shared responsibility while we marginalize 
Africans  and  deny  them  full  participation  in  our 
decisions.  We  cannot  talk  about  the  global  leadership 
of  the  United  Nations  when  African  leadership  is  not 
at the decision-making tables. In any political system, 
we cannot claim relevance for the people that we deny.
The  time  has  come  to  make  the  United  Nations 
relevant  to  all  people.  The  time  has  come  to  show  a 
global  leadership  that  is  inclusive  of  all  nations.  The 
time has come to pledge shared responsibilities together 
with  Africa  and  the  rest  of  the  world.  The  time  has 
come for this Assembly to listen to the voice of Africa. 
Let us listen.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
18-29775
3/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
Address by Mr. Jimmy Morales, President of the 
Republic of Guatemala
maritime dispute that we have had with Belize for more 
than a century and a half.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Guatemala.
Mr.  Jimmy  Morales,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Jimmy Morales, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Morales  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As  I 
am  participating  in  the  opening  of  this  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  it  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
congratulate Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on 
her  election  to  preside  over  this  world  forum  as  the 
first Latin American woman and the fourth woman in 
history to hold the position. I wish her success and have 
no  doubt  that  she  will  do  an  excellent  job  throughout 
this session.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Guatemala,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  international 
community  and  the  various  humanitarian  assistance 
organizations for their solidarity and support in the face 
of the tragedy that occurred in my country on 3 June as 
a result of the volcanic eruption that caused irreparable 
human losses, hundreds of injuries, extensive material 
damage and resulted in more than 1.7 million victims.
Today  we  have  the  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the 
role  played  by  the  United  Nations  in  the  world  order, 
respecting  the  sovereignty  of  the  countries  that  make 
it up, and I am more than ever convinced that our task 
is  no  greater  than  our  forces.  Behind  me  is  a  symbol 
that  in  this  era,  in  which  we  find  so  many  barriers 
and  differences,  we  can  associate  with  peace  and 
cooperation,  and  see  as  a  meeting  point  for  dialogue, 
tolerance  and  respect.  At  the  same  time,  I  represent 
Guatemala,  a  country  with  strong  traditions  and  a 
people that believes in God, that loves and respects the 
family as the basis of society, that sees life as starting 
at conception, and that is dedicated to freedom and the 
construction of a peaceful society. One example of this 
view  of  our  country  and  of  our  search  for  permanent 
peace  is  Guatemala’s  iron  determination  to  resolve 
peacefully  and  definitively  the  territorial,  insular  and 
I  am  pleased  to  share  with  the  Assembly  that,  on 
15 April, a referendum was held in Guatemala on the 
question  of  submitting  this  case  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  resulting  in  a  resounding  “yes”. 
Ninety-six per cent of voters voted in favour in the most 
participatory  referendum  in  the  country’s  history.  We 
are  convinced  that  the  resolution  of  this  dispute  will 
bring  economic,  social  and  political  benefits  to  both 
countries.  We  therefore  also  welcome  the  decision  of 
the  Government  of  Belize  to  set  the  date  of  10  April 
2019  for  its  own  referendum,  and  we  look  forward  to 
the results with great enthusiasm.
The  pursuit  of  development  in  the  region  also 
leads  to  peace  and  prosperity.  We  can  share  with  joy 
that Central American economic integration continues 
to  grow  in  strength  and  make  progress  after  half  a 
century.  This  year,  we  took  a  historic  step  with  the 
establishment of a customs union between Guatemala, 
Honduras  and  El  Salvador.  For  Central  America,  this 
customs union means that 80 per cent of bilateral trade 
will  enjoy  the  free  transit  of  goods,  thanks  to  tariff 
harmonization. Similarly, the cost of moving goods has 
been reduced by between 21 and 25 per cent, boosting 
exports  and  generating  an  increase  in    our  countries’ 
gross  domestic  product  and  improving  tax  collection 
and  our  companies’  competitiveness.  According  to 
data  from  the  World  Bank,  transit  across  our  borders 
has been reduced from between six and 55 hours to 15 
minutes.  This  customs  union  turns  the  three  Central 
American countries into a market of 32 million people.
Guatemala’s efforts to combat transnational threats 
are unprecedented in the region. The determination and 
commitment  of  the  Guatemalan  security  forces  have 
enabled  us  to  eradicate  more  than  471  million  poppy 
plants, worth $1.4 billion, over the past two years, with 
the  cooperation  of  United  States  agencies.  We  have 
seized  34,000  kilos  of  cocaine  and  increased  heroin 
seizures  by  400  per  cent  over  previous  years.  This 
means that in two years we have seized more drugs than 
in the previous eight years combined, preventing more 
than  30  million  United  States  and  European  citizens 
from being affected by the consumption of these drugs.
Guatemala  has  made  important  advances  in  the 
areas of transparency and the fight against corruption. 
Our  Open  Government  initiative  and  mechanism  are 
working on the basis of our third national action plan, for 
4/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
the period from 2016 to 2018, which has fulfilled 87 per 
cent of its commitments in the areas of access to public 
information,  fiscal  transparency,  civic  participation, 
technological innovation and accountability.
Guatemala  has  worked  hard  to  comply  with 
the  international  standards  of  the  Global  Forum 
on  Transparency  and  Exchange  of  Information  for 
Tax  Purposes,  and  has  ratified  the  Convention  on 
Mutual  Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  (OECD).  These  efforts  have  enabled  us 
to be removed from the list of countries considered to 
be tax havens. In the same vein, the General Secretariat 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala 
has  received  ISO  9001:2015  certification  for  the 
quality  of  its  management,  and  it  recently  received 
ISO  37001:2016  certification  for 
its  anti-bribery 
management  system,  the  only  such  certification  in 
the  world.  The  management  system  helps  institutions 
to  improve  their  overall  performance  and  provide  a 
solid  basis  for  sustainable  development  initiatives. 
It  is  also  a  tool  for  nurturing  integrity,  transparency, 
honesty and compliance with standards that minimize 
the risk of bribery by complying with legal obligations. 
In addition, 16 years after the last census, we carried 
out a national population and housing census this year 
with  state-of-the-art  digital  cartography,  reaching 
96  per  cent  of  households,  which  will  contribute  to 
quality statistical information that will be vital for the 
evaluation and measurement of our public policies.
to 
I will now address the issues of security and justice, 
because my Government has been and always will be 
respectful of the law and the rule of law. With my head 
held high, I can say that there is no sign of corruption in 
the management of our Government. On the contrary, 
as President of the Republic, I have led the fight against 
corruption  and  efforts 
increase  governmental 
transparency and accountability. Proof of this is that we 
have taken important steps with the OECD to improve 
good practices in favour of governmental transparency.
In line with the foregoing, we believe it necessary 
to  respect  the  sovereignty  of  each  country  and  to 
guarantee full freedom and recognize the beliefs, values 
and principles of each State, and not to impose a global 
bureaucratic agenda that dictates how that bureaucracy 
thinks things should be.
After  almost  four  decades  of  internal  armed 
conflict,  Guatemalans  signed  a  strong  and  lasting 
peace,  and  we  have  undertaken  the  very  arduous  and 
difficult task of building and maintaining it. Building 
peace is no easy task, as the grave consequences of the 
armed conflict weakened our institutions. Guatemala is 
the only State to have signed a cooperation agreement 
with  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  establishing  an 
international  commission  against  impunity,  known 
as  the  International  Commission  against  Impunity  in 
Guatemala  (CICIG),  which  was  originally  to  last  for 
two years. In weighing the initiative’s value, the State 
of Guatemala decided to extend that period five times. 
Under the direction of three Commissioners, the CICIG 
had  its  high  and  low  points,  and  as  a  sovereign  State 
Guatemala decided not to request a sixth extension, as 
we believe that more than a decade has provided it with 
enough time to fulfil its mandate. At the same time, we 
have asked the Secretary-General to begin transferring 
capacities  to  those  Guatemala  institutions  responsible 
for ensuring justice, in accordance with the mandate.
is  grateful  for 
The  State  of  Guatemala 
the 
technical support provided by CICIG in strengthening 
its  democratic  institutions,  and  we  appreciate  its 
contributions to fostering a culture of transparency and 
combating  impunity  and,  especially,  corruption.  We 
are  also  grateful  to  the  international  community  for 
its  financial  support  in  sustaining  CICIG  throughout 
these years. For the sake of transparency, it would be 
very fitting for the Secretary-General to report on the 
details of the use of resources since the establishment 
of  the  Commission  so  as  to  inform  the  international 
community  on  the  allocation  of  the  approved  funds. 
Given the circumstances, it is essential to familiarize 
the  international  community  with  the  reasons  why  it 
was decided not to extend CICIG’s mandate.
First,  it  violated  the  political  Constitution  of  the 
Republic, our laws and the very agreement on which its 
establishment was based, while overreaching the limits 
of its mandate, manipulating justice and undermining 
the  presumption  of 
innocence  and  due  process. 
Secondly,  Commissioner  Velásquez  meddled  in  the 
country’s  internal  affairs,  while  politicizing  justice 
and judicializing politics; those abuses have polarized 
Guatemalan  society  and  led  to  an  environment  of 
instability  jeopardizing  national  security.  In  recent 
years, increasing doubts have been raised about CICIG 
at  the  national  and  international  levels  and,  to  our 
astonishment,  a  case  involving  the  persecution  of  a 
Russian family, the Bitkovs, became known throughout 
the world. The United States Helsinki Commission has 
18-29775
5/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
requested CICIG to provide it with information on that 
matter,  and  the  Commission  has  repeatedly  refused 
to  do  so.  That  refusal  to  demonstrate  accountability 
entirely contradicts the spirit of the Commission’s fight 
against impunity.
I reiterate my country’s astonishment that despite 
the  fact  that  the  Guatemalan  Government  expressed 
its  concerns  about  CICIG  abuses,  it  took  a  case 
affecting international interests to get the international 
community  to  understand  the  injustices  committed 
by  that  United  Nations  Commission.  In  that  regard,  I 
want  to  point  to  the  indifference  and  passivity  of  the 
Secretary-General,  whom  I  personally  and  officially 
informed  for  more  than  a  year  of  the  concerns  of  the 
Government  of  Guatemala  about  the  bad  practices  of 
CICIG  and  its  Commissioner.  I  want  to  make  it  clear 
that I will not defend those who are corrupt or advocate 
for anyone involved in a judicial process pitted against 
the  Guatemalan  justice  system.  At  the  same  time, 
however,  no  one  can  deny  that,  just  like  the  Bitkovs, 
many  Guatemalan  people  and  families  have  also 
suffered  illegal  persecutions  and  violations  of  their 
human rights and constitutional guarantees at the hands 
of the Commission, which has enjoyed total impunity.
How  is  it  that  the  principles  of  the  presumption 
of  innocence  and  due  process  have  been  violated 
by  CICIG  in  Guatemala?  Contrary  to  the  guidelines 
for  international  human  rights  instruments  and  the 
Guatemalan  constitutional  order,  the  Commission’s 
statements  always  began  with  press  conferences, 
mediating  cases  in  violation  of  the  presumption  of 
innocence, because through such mediation pressure was 
exerted on judges and magistrates with regard to their 
decisions. The statement made by the jurist who heads 
the  Commission  —  to  the  effect  that  persons  become 
less innocent as investigations and the criminal process 
move forward — violates the political Constitution of 
our Republic, which guarantees the human right to the 
presumption of innocence. A person remains innocent 
until a final finding of guilt is handed down.
We would be remiss if we did not mention another 
abuse, which is the occurrences involving the excessive 
use  of  force  and  abuse  of  power  that  have  become 
popularly known as “CICIG black Thursdays”, which, 
in  addition  to  the  aforementioned  press  conferences, 
include  arrests  and  raids  characterized  by  the  use  of 
excessive force accompanied by the presence of dozens 
of  heavily  armed  police  with  high-calibre  rifles.  In 
that  regard,  Guatemala  was  astonished  by  one  such 
raid,  on  2  November  2016,  which  involved  illegal 
entry  into  the  presidential  residence.  This  abuse  was 
deplorable because, in addition to breaking through the 
three security perimeters of the presidential residence, 
the  very  institutional  integrity  of  our  country  was 
jeopardized.  CICIG  personnel  and  United  Nations 
vehicles took part in that raid.
Those facts were included in a document addressing 
the  concerns  of  the  State  of  Guatemala  delivered 
personally  to  the  Secretary-General  more  than  a  year 
ago.  The  fact  that  CICIG  has  made  the  excessive  use 
of  pretrial  detention  the  rule  in  Guatemala,  when  it 
should  be  used  only  in  exceptional  circumstances, 
must also be addressed. Under the laws of Guatemala, 
no one must remain in pretrial custody for more than 
three months, but in cases involving CICIG, some were 
held on remand for more than three years and remained 
incarcerated for an additional five years as the judicial 
process unfolded, only to be found innocent later.
To date, hundreds of people have remained in years-
long  pretrial  custody.  In  one  such  case,  the  so-called 
Peacock  case,  one  person  was  tried  in  Guatemala, 
another  in  Austria  and  yet  another  in  Spain.  In  all 
three countries, the evidence presented by CICIG was 
judged  insufficient,  and  they  were  found  not  guilty. 
Today  we  mourn  five  deaths  caused  by  the  abuse  of 
pretrial  detention,  in  which  pressure  from  CICIG  on 
judges led them to fail to provide alternative forms of 
incarceration  that  would  have  ensured  the  delivery  of 
adequate medical treatment. I call attention to the fact 
that such inhumane treatment has not been meted out to 
even the most dangerous criminals or drug traffickers.
Another case that I would like to bring up is that 
of  Alfredo  Zimeri,  a  young  man  of  19  years  of  age, 
who  was  brutally  beaten  by  members  of  the  CICIG 
staff, causing multiple and serious fractures to his face 
and skull. Mr. Velásquez exceeded the authority of his 
mandate, in addition to finding himself in a conflict of 
interest, when he requested recorded footage from the 
surveillance cameras, which is evidence that only the 
public prosecutor is authorized to handle. Should this 
be described as justice or as impunity?
Essentially,  CICIG  has  become  a 
to 
peace  in  Guatemala.  It  has  set  up  a  system  of  terror 
whereby  anyone  who  thinks  differently  is  tracked 
down,  investigated  and  accused  by  or  referred  to  the 
Commission  so  as  to  coerce  witnesses,  whom  it  later 
turns  into  effective  collaborators  by  offering  them 
threat 
6/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
summary trials and reduced sentences. Unfortunately, 
the  CICIG  ideal  has  been  lost  in  the  bureaucracy  of 
the  United  Nations  and  in  the  cult  of  the  individual, 
which as a matter of principle should never be greater 
than  the  institution  it  represents.  What  is  certain  is 
that  today  Guatemala  is  more  polarized  than  it  has 
been for decades. Some say that we did not have this 
kind of polarization even during the armed conflict in 
Guatemala in the 1980s. Groups of people with extremist 
views  have  sought  to  take  advantage  of  the  fight 
against  corruption,  applauding  selective  persecutions 
that have been turned into overt demonstrations by an 
ideologically  biased  CICIG.  We  in  Guatemala  do  not 
want  more  confrontation,  we  want  peace  and  justice. 
With  the  same  respect  that  we  have  always  shown,  I 
am  publicly  asking  the  Secretary-General,  before  the 
Assembly, if we can agree on appointing a new CICIG 
Commissioner  to  carry  out  the  transfer  of  technical 
capabilities  to  the  appropriate  bodies.  Guatemala  has 
acted  in  good  faith  at  all  times  and  we  continue  to 
believe firmly that disputes can be resolved amicably 
through dialogue.
Turning  to  other  subjects,  we  should  point  out 
Guatemala is a country located in a vulnerable tropical 
zone  that  is  suffering  increasingly  seriously  from  the 
effects  of  climate  change.  We  are  once  again  dealing 
with a prolonged drought affecting the most vulnerable 
sectors of our population. That is why we have invested 
in rehabilitating all of our irrigation and mini-irrigation 
systems, which can help to ensure low-income farmers’ 
production.  We  have  focused  our  public  investment 
budget on our national development priorities and have 
also  been  able  to  contribute  to  global  environmental 
efforts by designing a technology called bio-fences for 
decontaminating rivers, beaches, seas and oceans that 
has  been  recognized  by  the  World  Economic  Forum. 
We  continue  to  work  to  combat  chronic  malnutrition 
through our 2016-2020 national strategy and policy for 
the prevention of chronic malnutrition, which is directly 
related  to  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  aimed 
at  ending  hunger,  achieving  food  security,  improving 
nutrition and ensuring quality education.
I  am  very  pleased  to  know  that  the  Assembly 
has  made  progress  with  the  negotiations  for  a  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration.  My 
Government is clearly focused on improving security and 
development conditions in order to reducing migration 
and  the  risks  that  migrants  run  when  embarking  on 
dangerous  journeys  in  their  quest  to  improve  their 
quality  of  life.  In  the  meantime,  we  will  continue 
working to strengthen our entire consular network.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  send  a  message 
of  unity  and  peace  to  my  people  and  to  the  entire 
international  community.  I  will  return  to  my  country 
with the vision and hope of a better tomorrow for all. 
I would like to end by quoting the great Ruben Darío 
when he said about his country: “If your homeland is 
small, dream it big”.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Guatemala for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jimmy  Morales,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Arab Republic 
of Egypt.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi, 
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Al Sisi (spoke in Arabic): I would like to 
congratulate Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on 
assuming the presidency of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-third  session,  and  to  express  my  appreciation 
for the efforts of Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, the President of 
the previous session.
I  also  commend  the  President  on  her  choice  of 
theme  for  this  year’s  session,  for  as  Member  States 
we  desperately  need  to  renew  our  commitment  and 
contributions  to  reinforcing  the  role  and  status  of 
the  United  Nations  as  the  basic  foundation  of  a  just 
and  effective  international  order,  based  on  a  balance 
of  interests  and  responsibilities,  respect  for  State 
sovereignty  and  the  dissemination  of  a  culture  of 
peace, as well as in enabling us to rise above racism, 
extremism  and  violence  while  achieving  sustainable 
development.  Those  are  the  values  that  have  shaped 
18-29775
7/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
Egypt’s  vision  in  relation  to  the  United  Nations  since 
we  co-founded  it  seven  decades  ago,  and  throughout 
the  six  terms  that  Egypt  has  served  on  the  Security 
Council,  the  latest  of  which  was  in  2016  and  2017. 
Those values are also the driving force behind Egypt’s 
active  contribution  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, which makes us the world’s seventh-largest 
troop-contributing country.
Despite that strong belief in the values and role of 
the United Nations, we have to admit in all frankness 
that there is a flaw in the international system that has 
a negative effect on its performance and casts a shadow 
over  its  credibility  for  many  peoples,  particularly  in 
the  Arab  and  African  regions,  at  the  heart  of  which 
Egypt  is  situated.  How  can  we  blame  Arabs  who 
question  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the values it represents at a time when their region is 
threatened by the disintegration and collapse of nation 
States, giving way to a wave of terrorism as well as to 
religious and sectarian conflicts that deplete the Arab 
peoples’  resources?  How  can  we  blame  Arabs  who 
wonder  why  the  Palestinian  people  have  been  denied 
their legitimate rights to live in dignity and peace in an 
independent  State  that  reflects  their  national  identity, 
hopes and aspirations?
Can  we  say  that  Africans  are  exaggerating  when 
they  complain  about  the  ineffectiveness  of  the  world 
order and about the fact that their continent is suffering 
from an economic order that perpetuates poverty and 
inequality,  continually  creates  social  and  political 
crises  and  provides  no  prospects  for  progress  and 
development?  I  raise  those  questions  at  a  time  when 
Egypt  is  chairing  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  whose 
member States make up a majority of the population of 
this planet and therefore have an enormous interest in 
enhancing the role of the United Nations. Developing 
countries cannot afford to exist in an international order 
that  is  not  governed  by  laws  and  the  lofty  principles 
on  which  the  United  Nations  was  founded,  or  in  one 
that can be polarized and subjected to attempts by some 
to dominate it and impose their will on the rest of the 
international community.
Let  me  sum  up  Egypt’s  vision  in  three  key 
principles to which we ought to renew our commitment, 
and three causes to which we must accord priority if the 
United  Nations  is  to  regain  its  effectiveness  and  role. 
The  first  principle  is  that  there  is  no  way  to  achieve 
an effective international order if its main constituent 
unit, the nation State, which is premised on the notions 
of  citizenship,  democracy  and  equality,  is  threatened 
with  disintegration.  I  speak  based  on  Egypt’s  unique 
experience. The Egyptian people have made tremendous 
efforts  to  restore  their  State  and  save  their  identity. 
They  chose  the  capable  and  just  nation  State  as  the 
pathway to reform in order to achieve their aspirations 
for freedom, development and dignity.
to  sectarian 
The  disintegration  of  nations  as  a  result  of  civil 
strife  and  regression 
loyalty  rather 
national identity is responsible for the most dangerous 
phenomena 
in  our  contemporary  world,  such  as 
armed conflicts, human trafficking, illegal migration, 
organized crime and the illicit trade in arms and drugs.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Arab  region  is  one  of 
the most vulnerable in the world to the dangers of the 
disintegration of nation States and the ensuing creation 
of  a  fertile  environment  for  terrorism  and  worsening 
sectarian  conflict.  Preserving  and  reforming 
the 
foundation  of  the  State  is  therefore  a  fundamental 
priority  of  Egypt’s  foreign  policy  in  the  Arab  region. 
There  can  be  no  way  out  of  the  crisis  in  Syria  or  the 
plight  of  Yemen  except  by  restoring  the  nation  State 
and preserving its sovereignty and institutions, as well 
as  realizing  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  its  people. 
Egypt  fully  supports  a  United  Nations-led  political 
solution in those two brother countries and rejects any 
exploitation as a means to achieve regional intervention 
or foster an environment for terrorism, extremism and 
sectarianism. That same principle applies to our policy 
on  Libya,  where  Egypt  is  playing  a  pivotal  role  in 
support of rebuilding the State, especially with respect 
to  the  unification  of  the  Libyan  armed  forces  so  that 
they can be capable of defending Libya and countering 
the dangers of terrorism.
We must not forget that a year has already passed 
since  the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  initiative  on 
Libya,  which  seeks  to  comprehensively  address  the 
Libyan  crisis.  To  date,  no  progress  has  been  made  in 
its  implementation,  which  means  we  must  renew  our 
commitment  to  reaching  a  political  solution,  as  per 
all  the  elements  of  the  initiative.  There  is  no  room 
for  partial  solutions  in  Libya,  Syria  or  Yemen.  Major 
crises  require  comprehensive  approaches,  not  partial 
solutions, if we are to halt the loss of life and resources 
and begin the construction phase.
The second principle is a commitment to peaceful 
and  sustainable  solutions  to  international  conflicts. 
That  is  the  raison  d’être  of  the  United  Nations.  Yet 
8/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
institutions  and  begin 
despite the efforts of the United Nations in numerous 
conflicts,  such  as  those  in  South  Sudan,  the  Central 
African  Republic  and  Mali,  so  far  it  has  undoubtedly 
fallen short of finding permanent settlements for them. 
There is also an urgent need to mobilize resources to 
help  countries  in  post-conflict  situations  rehabilitate 
their 
reconstruction  and 
development. The fundamental issue here is translating 
that principle into tangible support for national efforts 
to  overcome  conflicts  and  build  States  in  accordance 
with  their  priorities,  while  avoiding  the  imposition 
of  alien  models  of  governance  and  development  or 
interfering in the internal affairs of States and violating 
their sovereignty.
We  cannot  talk  about  the  settlement  of  disputes 
as  a  founding  principle  of  the  United  Nations  and  an 
indicator  of  its  credibility  without  addressing  the 
Palestinian question, which is a perfect example of the 
failure of the international system to find a just solution 
based  on  international  legitimacy  and  the  United 
Nations resolutions that guarantee the establishment of 
a  Palestinian  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital. 
The  terms  of  reference  of  a  just  solution  and  the 
parameters of a final settlement are well known. There 
is  no  time  to  waste  on  that  debate.  What  is  required 
is the political will to resume negotiations and achieve 
a  settlement  in  accordance  with  those  premises.  Let 
me  repeat  what  I  have  said  in  previous  years  at  this 
rostrum — Arabs continue to extend a hand for peace. 
Our peoples deserve to turn this tragic page in history.
The  third  principle  is  a  commitment  to  achieving 
comprehensive  and  sustainable  development  as  a 
necessary precondition for a stable world order and the 
best way for preventing armed conflict and humanitarian 
crises. While we welcome the consensus reached on the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  we  note 
that the implementation of the Goals in that ambitious 
plan  require  us  to  address  the  problem  of  financing 
for development. That can be achieved by creating an 
international environment that enables the free flow of 
resources necessary for development without imposing 
any  conditions,  while  supporting  national  efforts  to 
mobilize financing for development. The reform of the 
global  economic  and  financial  architecture  cannot  be 
delayed. We look forward to seeing the United Nations 
serve  as  a  platform  for  developing  ideas  to  achieve 
this reform, particularly with regard to the creation of 
mechanisms that would help to prevent illicit financial 
flows  out  of  developing  countries  and  facilitate  the 
return of such vital assets to their rightful owners.
The international commitment to the preservation 
of the nation State, the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
strengthening  cooperation  to  achieve  comprehensive 
development  and  address  imbalances  in  the  global 
economic system are all necessary conditions for any 
serious consideration of the revitalization of the United 
Nations system and the restoration of its credibility. In 
order to implement these three principles, three priority 
causes  must  also  be  addressed  in  order  to  ensure 
the  credibility  and  the  future  of  the  United  Nations 
Organization and the international order as a whole.
First, we need to strengthen partnerships between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations.  Here 
I  would  like  to  point  to  the  successful  experience 
of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African  Union  (AU)  as  a  model  to  be  followed.  That 
would  help  to  share  the  burdens  and  enable  us  to 
benefit  from  the  comparative  advantages  of  both 
parties  in  order  to  address  the  complex  challenges  in 
our region. The main aim of the international efforts is 
to maintain and build peace and provide humanitarian 
and developmental assistance.
the 
Egypt  is  poised  to  assume  the  presidency  of 
the  African  Union  in  2019  and  looks  forward  to 
strengthening 
strategic  partnership  between 
the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  through 
programmes  that  have  a  real  impact  on  the  continent 
and by building on gains made in order to consolidate 
the  African  Union  post-conflict  reconstruction  and 
development policy. Egypt is alo host to the AU Center 
for Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development and 
the counter-terrorism centre for the regional community 
of Sahel-Saharan States.
Secondly, we must continue our efforts to implement 
the initiative launched by Egypt during its membership 
of the Security Council to put in place a comprehensive 
international framework to develop policies and bolster 
cooperation  in  countering  terrorism.  In  that  context, 
we  welcomed 
initiative 
to  convene  the  High-level  Conference  of  Heads  of 
Counter-Terrorism Agencies of Member States in June, 
following  the  periodic  review  of  the  United  Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
the  Secretary-General’s 
As  the  Assembly  is  well  aware,  early  this  year 
Egypt launched its comprehensive Sinai 2018 operation 
to  combat  and  decisively  eradicate  terrorism  through 
18-29775
9/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
a  strategy  that  addresses  its  security,  ideological  and 
development  aspects.  Based  on  that  experience  and 
on  Egypt’s  overall  experience  in  supporting  counter-
terrorism efforts in the Middle East and North Africa, I 
can assure the Assembly that the level of financing, the 
sophisticated arms and training, as well as the means 
of communication obtained by those extremist groups, 
as well as the ease of movement and travel of foreign 
terrorist fighters, point to the inevitable need to develop 
a global system to combat terrorism wherever it exists 
and to cut its sources of support in every possible way.
Thirdly, we must address the shortcomings in the 
international  community’s  handling  of  human  rights 
issues.  The  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  cannot 
be restored as long as millions continue to suffer from 
extreme poverty, live under foreign occupation or fall 
victim to terrorism and armed conflict. Human rights 
will  not  be  protected  through  media  defamation,  the 
politicization  of  human  rights  mechanisms  or  the 
failure to equitably address all issues of human rights, 
including economic, social and cultural rights.
Egypt has a solid constitutional foundation for the 
protection of all human rights. Major strides have been 
achieved  in  the  area  of  the  empowerment  of  women 
and young people. Women now hold 25 per cent of the 
ministerial  posts  and  more  than  15  per  cent  of  seats 
in Parliament. We rely on young people in all leading 
positions in the country, while the international youth 
conferences that are held annually in Egypt have also 
become a regular forum for them to communicate and 
raise their concerns and priorities. We are determined 
to  continue  to  accord  high  priority  to  the  issues  of 
women’s  economic  empowerment,  youth,  science, 
technology and innovation during Egypt’s presidency of 
the Group of 77 and China, as a practical demonstration 
of our commitment to the comprehensive promotion of 
human rights.
Egypt, like the vast majority of the world’s peoples 
and  nations,  has  a  vested  interest  in  restoring  the 
credibility  of  international  multilateral  action  with 
the  United  Nations  at  its  forefront.  We  believe  that 
the  Organization  can  overcome  scepticism  about  its 
merits and credibility by restoring the lofty principles 
on  which  its  Charter  was  premised  and  by  acting  in 
accordance with the priorities I have addressed, which 
reflect  the  aspirations  of  our  peoples.  Only  then  will 
our Organization reclaim its credibility and our peoples 
regain their confidence in a future of peace, cooperation 
and respect for one another.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Egypt for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mario Abdo Benítez, President of 
the Republic of Paraguay
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mario  Abdo 
Benítez, President of the Republic of Paraguay.
Mr. Mario Abdo Benítez, President of the Republic 
of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mario  Abdo  Benítez, 
President of the Republic of Paraguay, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Benítez (spoke in Spanish): It is a great 
honour and privilege for me to address the Assembly for 
the first time at the beginning of my tenure as President 
of the Republic of Paraguay.
Paraguay  has  always  shown  its  unconditional 
support for the United Nations system and will continue 
to unwaveringly assume its commitments as a Member 
of the Organization, as well as its active responsibility 
based on the principles that we all recognize — freedom, 
justice,  national  sovereignty,  independence  and  the 
integrity  of  States.  My  nation  has  a  deep  sense  of 
equality based on the recognition of human dignity. We 
reject  violence  and  intolerance  and  love  peace.  Ours 
is a society of diverse cultures. It is bilingual, capable 
of  overcoming  difficulties  selflessly  and  responsibly, 
which  requires  integrity  and  righteousness,  the  civic 
values intrinsic to democracy.
We are very pleased that the most democratic and 
representative  body  of  our  Organization  is  being  led 
by a woman who is also Latin American. We offer our 
congratulations and best wishes for success to the new 
President of the General Assembly, Ms. María Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés.  We  also  salute  Secretary-General 
António Guterres, who is doing an excellent job leading 
the institution. We reiterate our absolute confidence in 
and support for his management.
10/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
increasingly 
interconnected 
In 
We  offer  our  posthumous  tribute  to  the  former 
Secretary-General  and  Nobel  Peace  Prize  laureate 
the late Kofi Annan. He was an extraordinary leader, 
humanist  and  promoter  of  peace  who  took  pains  to 
ensure that the Organization serves the peoples as well 
as the States.
an 
and 
interdependent world that is evolving at an accelerated 
pace,  collectively  addressing  global  challenges  is 
an  unavoidable  responsibility  of  the  international 
community.  The  General  Assembly  must  continue  to 
be strengthened, as it is the voice of the nations of the 
world. The Security Council must be reformed with a 
view to making it more democratic and inclusive so as 
to fulfil the mandate of maintaining international peace 
and security for this and future generations. Paraguay 
advocates  adding  more  developing  countries  so  as  to 
balance  the  membership  of  the  Council,  as  well  as 
totally eliminating the veto, a privilege that no longer 
corresponds to the political reality of our times.
The Republic of Paraguay has strongly supported 
the  reforms  promoted  by  the  Secretary-General  in 
the  pillars  of  development,  peace  and  security,  and 
management.  We  believe  that  those  efforts  have  been 
successful  and  that  they  have  been  deployed  at  the 
right time, since in order to face the challenges posed 
by sustainable development, we must have an efficient, 
transparent  Organization  that  has  the  capacity  to 
support  countries  in  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  particularly 
countries  with  special  needs  and  challenges,  such  as 
landlocked developing countries.
The  poverty  that  is  currently  affecting  millions 
of  human  beings  is  due  to  the  poor  distribution  of 
goods  rather  than  their  scarcity.  As  leaders  it  is  our 
responsibility  to  stop  viewing  poverty  simply  as  an 
economic  indicator  and  instead  to  see  it  as  a  human 
problem. In our view, ignoring the human aspect when 
we speak about poverty is going against the principles 
that this institution and our democracies represent.
far-reaching  and 
Our  Government  is  committed  to  making  social 
policies  more 
intensifying  our 
support  to  human  development  by  improving  the 
democratization of access to education, health care and 
dignified employment. That is the way forward, in both 
the medium and long terms, to achieving greater social 
equity  and  collective  prosperity.  We  are  especially 
focusing  on  young  people,  who  have  extraordinary 
potential to help transform Paraguay and the world. We 
must take advantage of the opportunity that demography 
has given us to lay solid foundations for a better future. 
With that purpose in mind, we are initiating a process for 
the  profound  transformation  of  our  education  policies 
that will enable us to bring children and young people 
into the education system, with a special emphasis on 
training teachers and professors.
We  are  going  to  install  and  consolidate  a  social 
protection system that addresses people’s entire lives. 
Paraguay must protect its people from conception to old 
age. There are many pending issues in the situation of 
people  with  disabilities  and  this  is  a  key  moment  for 
Paraguay as a nation to promote their rights. We will 
give  particular  attention  to  ensuring  that  our  public 
policies  are  cross-cutting  so  that  we  can  implement 
them fully. We are also working to promote women as a 
factor for change in our country, creating the conditions 
necessary for equity, equality and empowerment. With 
the  support  of  our  mothers,  wives  and  daughters,  we 
firmly believe that we can create a better country and 
society. And our indigenous peoples occupy a special 
place  in  our  Government.  It  is  time  for  the  State  to 
shoulder  the  task  of  creating  better  living  conditions 
for them. That is a moral obligation.
Paraguay  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  scourge 
of  terrorism  and  believes  that  there  can  never  be  any 
justification  for  the  use  of  violence  as  a  means  to 
an  end.  We  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations  and  reaffirm  that  the  fight  against 
terrorism  and  the  protection  of  human  rights  are  not 
opposing  goals  but  rather  complement  and  mutually 
reinforce one another. We continue to work relentlessly 
with  allied  countries  to  fiercely  fight  every  form  of 
crime. We cannot accept the possibility that our borders 
can  become  places  where  criminal  organizations  can 
thrive.  In  the  few  weeks  since  my  presidential  term 
began, we have carried out some operations that have 
produced  very  positive  results  in  the  fight  against 
drug trafficking and have shown through our political 
will  that  we  are  determined  not  to  give  up  under 
any  circumstances.  International  drug 
trafficking 
is  accustomed  to  believing  itself  untouchable  and  is 
constantly seeking power. I have promised my people, 
and  today  I  pledge  it  before  the  entire  international 
community, that we will not allow that to happen. We 
will  continue  fighting  and  working  alongside  every 
State to eradicate these criminal networks.
18-29775
11/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
As  a  priority,  climate  change  is  unquestionably 
a  global  challenge.  We  States  have  a  crucial  decision 
in our hands — we can slow climate change and deal 
with its consequences, or deny it and continue making 
it worse. With its adoption of the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change in 2015, the international community 
decided  to  work  together  to  combat  climate  change, 
without  ignoring  the  historical  responsibility  that  the 
most highly developed nations have for the production 
of  greenhouse  gases.  The  issue  of  environmental 
responsibility is shaping Paraguay’s vision for strategic 
development. We generate more renewable energy per 
capita than any other country on the planet, and we are 
also a major exporter of that energy. At the same time, 
we also intend to expand and improve our national and 
regional power systems.
Democracy  has  been  consolidated 
in  many 
countries,  but  we  have  the  obligation  to  adequately 
address the demands of a people who are impatient with 
institutions  whose  legitimacy  has  been  jeopardized 
by  corruption,  inequality  and  inefficiency  in  the  face 
of  urgent  need.  The  citizens  of  Paraguay  —  indeed, 
the  citizens  of  the  world  —  have  woken  up.  Their 
voices  resound  in  our  streets,  calling  for  us  to  tackle 
corruption  and  impunity,  and  it  is  our  obligation  to 
listen to them and not ignore their just demands. In my 
country, we understand that dialogue and convergence 
are fundamental tools for major reform of the judicial 
system, which is a priority for us. Judicial security and 
the  efficacy  of  justice  are  a  nation’s  pillars.  Without 
justice there can be no order, and without order chaos 
reigns,  and  in  chaos  there  can  be  no  peace  or  social 
development. I firmly believe in our institutions and in 
the importance of reforming and strengthening them so 
that  they  respond  to  our  societies’  current  and  future 
needs.  Only  with  strong  institutions  and  systems  can 
we ensure the growth of our democracies.
Paraguay is one of the most open economies in the 
world.  We  understand  that  interaction  with  the  world 
is  an  essential  element  for  development.  We  consider 
alliances  to  be  an  essential  way  of  improving  global 
integration.  Our  country  is  firmly  committed  to  full 
regional  integration  and  aspires  to  build  it  in  full 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  independence  of  each 
of the Latin American and Caribbean peoples. But we 
cannot ignore the fact that dictatorial regimes that rob 
their own populations of their happiness, hopes, dreams 
and human rights persist on our continent. We want to 
express  our  solidarity  with  the  peoples  of  Venezuela 
and Nicaragua in the face of the abuses of power in their 
countries. We firmly believe that despite our differences, 
our region must work together to create the wealth and 
share the prosperity that will benefit our peoples. The 
pursuit of ideologies as an act of fanaticism or a way to 
assert superiority must be eradicated. Our goal should 
be to work for the greater good, while respecting our 
differences, and for the benefit of our communities.
including 
landlocked 
Every  country  faces  individual  challenges  on  its 
path to sustainable development, but the international 
community has acknowledged that the most vulnerable 
countries  — 
developing 
countries, whose geography creates special needs and 
challenges  —  require  special  attention.  Those  needs 
and challenges make themselves felt mainly in the area 
of trade. Paraguay has chaired the Group of Landlocked 
Developing  Countries  for  two  years  and  has  made  a 
priority of the implementation of the Vienna Programme 
of  Action  for  Landlocked  Developing  Countries  for 
the Decade 2014-2024, which is an integral part of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and urges 
States, particularly our trading partners and countries 
of  transit,  to  take  the  Programme  of  Action  into 
due consideration.
We  believe  that  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and  the 
Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons represent 
major steps towards disarmament and non-proliferation. 
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to  peacekeeping  operations  under  the  auspices  of 
the  United  Nations,  in  its  belief  in  the  importance 
of  contributing  to  the  achievement  of  the  purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Paraguayan  military  and  police  personnel, 
duly trained prior to deployment, are currently serving 
in  various  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
around the world.
Paraguay  respects  international  law.  All  of  my 
Government’s  decisions  are  based  on  its  principles, 
and we faithfully implement all General Assembly and 
Security  Council  resolutions.  My  country  supports 
Taiwan’s  legitimate  request  to  be  included  in  the 
United  Nations  system  and  believes  that  Taiwan  can 
make  a  major  contribution  to  our  work.  This  is  all 
based on the principle of universality that characterizes 
our Organization.
This year, we will adopt two historic agreements, 
the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration and the global compact on refugees. Paraguay 
12/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
has  actively  participated  in  the  negotiations  on  both 
documents, which seek to reach agreements that benefit 
refugees and migrants equally, as well as the countries 
and communities from which they come, through which 
they transit and to which they go.
In 1958, Paraguay launched the World Friendship 
Crusade,  an  endeavour  that  has  deeply  moved  our 
people.  In  May  2011,  the  General  Assembly  decided 
to  support  that  initiative  by  declaring  30  July  as  the 
International  Day  of  Friendship.  I  urge  the  leaders 
of  all  Member  States  of  the  Organization  to  promote 
friendship as a noble and valuable sentiment in the lives 
of human beings.
This year marks the seventieth anniversary of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone in 
the history of humankind that enabled us to recognize 
formally  and  for  the  first  time  that  all  people  have 
fundamental rights by virtue of their human condition, 
without  distinction  based  on  race,  sex,  nationality, 
religion or any other condition. Paraguay reaffirms its 
commitment to the Declaration and emphasizes that the 
United  Nations  must  continue  to  play  a  fundamental 
role in ensuring the full enjoyment of human rights and 
fundamental freedoms for all.
an 
enormously 
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  was 
important 
commitment.  It  represents  the  beginning  of  a  process 
of  restructuring  aimed  at  transforming  the  growth 
paradigms of today’s generations and ensuring the well-
being  of  those  of  the  future.  The  success  of  that  new 
global agenda depends on the commitment of States and 
on  international  solidarity.  We  therefore  call  for  that 
global partnership to mobilize the resources necessary 
for  its  full  implementation,  including  technology 
transfers,  knowledge-sharing  and  capacity-building, 
particularly  as  they  relate  to  developing  countries. 
In  fulfilment  of  the  commitment  Paraguay  made  on 
25  September  2015,  we  presented  our  first  voluntary 
national  review  of  the  progress  we  have  made  in  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  at  the  High-level 
Political Forum on Sustainable Development in July.
In the face of an international scenario characterized 
by  political  uncertainty  and  economic  volatility,  we 
need  collective  and  comprehensive  strategies  with  a 
sense  of  shared  responsibility.  That  is  why  it  is  vital 
that we decide whether we can allow States to impose 
themselves and obtain the greatest advantage they can 
from their position, or whether we should work actively 
for  stability  and  common  peace  by  strengthening 
multilateral 
instruments  and  mutual  cooperation. 
The  United  Nations  Organization  is  a  continuing 
work-in-progress. We must all maintain a constant and 
unalterable  commitment  to  working  on  strengthening 
it and building its capacity to adapt and respond to the 
common challenges facing humankind. May God bless 
our nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Paraguay for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Mario Abdo Benítez, President of the Republic 
of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mauricio Macri, President of the 
Argentine Republic
escorted 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Argentine Republic.
Mr.  Mauricio  Macri,  President  of  the  Argentine 
Republic,  was 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Mauricio Macri, President 
of the Argentine Republic, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
into 
President Macri (spoke in Spanish): I would like 
to congratulate the President on her election to lead this 
session of the General Assembly. I am sure that her work 
will attest to the pertinence of women’s leadership.
It is an honour to return to the General Assembly 
to share our vision for the stage we are currently going 
through in Argentina and to ratify our commitment to 
making our country a protagonist that is fully integrated 
into the world. Our country is undergoing a period of 
profound  change.  We  are  determined  to  experience  it 
with humility, while accepting the difficulties we face, 
and in our belief that we are making the right efforts. I 
know that the efforts required are great, and I want to 
thank every Argentine for that. We knew it would not 
be easy, because we are making changes without taking 
shortcuts or compromising our future. We are building 
a consensus for equitable and sustainable development. 
Two years ago, I shared here for the first time my view 
of  Argentina  as  a  reliable  partner  of  the  international 
community and a good-faith mediator of regional and 
18-29775
13/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
international  politics  (see  A/71/PV.8).  Today  I  would 
like to renew that vision.
Since  I  took  office  as  President,  we  have  been 
committed to an intelligent integration into the world, 
based  on  the  value  of  our  region,  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean.  We  are  a  zone  of  peace,  with  young 
populations full of talent and vitality and with abundant 
resources  and  natural  reserves.  We  are  working  for 
greater integration among ourselves and with the rest 
of the world. That is evidenced by the willingness for 
dialogue  and  cooperation  between  the  countries  of 
the  South  American  Common  Market  and  the  Pacific 
Alliance. We seek to have a positive impact on the world 
order  of  the  twenty-first  century.  From  the  South,  we 
take an optimistic view that ponders the opportunities 
and challenges of globalization. Intelligent integration 
is also part of our contribution to building a region and a 
world order that are stable and inclusive and that respect 
our values of peace, democracy and human rights.
I  would  therefore  like  to  take  a  moment  once 
again  to  express  our  concern  regarding  the  human 
rights  situation  in  Venezuela.  Given  its  seriousness, 
Argentina wants to refer the situation of the Venezuelan 
dictatorship’s  crimes  against  humanity 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  I  call  on  Venezuela  to 
acknowledge the humanitarian crisis so that we can use 
international cooperation to address the health and food 
deprivation of displaced persons. We are part of a broad 
regional response that seeks to mitigate the difficulties 
of millions of Venezuelans in the wake of their exodus 
from  their  country  by  taking  them  in  and  integrating 
them  into  society.  Argentina  has  already  received 
130,000 Venezuelans.
to 
For  decades  we  have  convened  here  to  safeguard 
international  peace  and  security.  However,  we  live  in 
a  world  that  is  not  immune  to  serious  threats  such  as 
organized  crime,  cybercrime  and  terrorism,  which 
require  cooperative  responses  if  they  are  to  be  dealt 
with.  In  recent  years,  with  political  will  and  greater 
cooperation  with  our  partners  in  the  region  and  the 
world,  we  have  managed  to  increase  the  quantity  of 
drugs  seized,  dismantle  criminal  drug-trafficking 
networks,  catch  more  national  and 
international 
fugitives  and  reduce  homicides  related 
to  drug 
trafficking throughout our country. At the same time, 
we continue to seek the necessary consensus to design 
a complementary judicial authority at the regional level 
and thereby combat organized crime collectively.
Argentina condemns terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations.  We  suffered  directly  from  two  very 
serious terrorist attacks, in 1992 and 1994, which claimed 
the  lives  of  107  people  and  left  hundreds  wounded. 
Our country will not cease its efforts to bring all those 
involved in the attacks before Argentine courts so that 
they can be tried and ultimately sentenced. In that regard, 
considering that next year will mark 25 years since the 
attack  on  the  Argentina  Israeli  Mutual  Association,  I 
should like once again to ask the Islamic Republic of 
Iran to cooperate with the Argentine judicial authorities 
to advance investigations into the most brutal terrorist 
attack  we  have  ever  experienced  on  our  territory.  We 
call on countries that are friendly to Argentina to assist 
us  by  not  harbouring  under  diplomatic  immunity  any 
of the accused for whom international arrest warrants 
and  INTERPOL  red  notices  have  been  issued.  Here  I 
would also like to remember the five Argentines who 
were killed on 31 October 2017 in this city. My heart is 
with the families of the victims, as well as all victims of 
barbaric acts of terrorism around the world.
Argentina  maintains  a  strategic  vision  for  the 
South  Atlantic,  where  we  seek  to  peacefully  develop 
an  active  policy  on  resources,  the  environment  and 
science, which includes the question of the Malvinas. I 
should like to reaffirm once again before the Assembly 
the  legitimate  and  imprescriptible  sovereign  rights  of 
Argentina  over  the  Malvinas,  South  Georgia  and  the 
South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime 
areas. I should also like to reaffirm my Government’s 
commitment  to  this  new  phase  in  relations  with  the 
United Kingdom, based on building mutual trust and a 
broad and positive dialogue.
Argentina  is  a  country  with  a  democratic  and 
multilateral  identity.  Multilateralism  is  fundamental 
to  highlighting  our  national  interests  and  seeking 
consensus.  We  maintain  our  firm  commitment  to  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  we 
established as pillars of our Government’s policy on the 
eradication of poverty, combating climate change and 
achieving gender equality.
Argentina has been demonstrating its willingness 
to  contribute  to  strengthening  global  governance. 
We  hosted  the  World  Trade  Organization  Ministerial 
Conference last year, where it was made clear that there 
is a future after the meeting in Buenos Aires. In 2019, 
we  will  host  the  second  High-level  United  Nations 
Conference on South-South Cooperation. We will also 
14/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
be preparing to chair the 2020 Review Conference of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons, reaffirming our historic commitment 
to non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. We are 
presiding over the Group of Twenty (G-20) this year in 
a spirit of unity and a constant quest for consensus.
The  results  being  achieved  give  us  reason  for 
enthusiasm.  In  every  working  group  and  ministerial 
meeting a sense of collective commitment is prevailing, 
as  was  true  of  the  Trade  and  Investment  Ministerial 
Meeting,  where  a  willingness 
the 
multilateral  trading  system  was  expressed.  The  first 
G-20  leaders  summit  to  take  place  in  South  America 
will  be  held  on  30  November  in  Buenos  Aires.  With 
the support of our partners, the G-20 will once again 
demonstrate its validity and relevance.
to  revitalize 
The international community is facing challenges 
that  require  effective  and  efficient  compromises. 
They  demand  solutions  reached  through  dialogue 
and  consensus-building.  The  theme  for  this  session 
of  the  Assembly  emphasizes  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for achieving equitable, sustainable and 
peaceful societies. Argentines are committed to doing 
their part to make them a reality.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Argentine 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mauricio  Macri,  President  of  the  Argentine 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Alain Berset, President of the 
Swiss Confederation
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Swiss Confederation.
Mr.  Alain  Berset,  President  of 
the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Alain Berset, President of 
the Swiss Confederation, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Berset  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a  great 
privilege for me to stand before the General Assembly 
today  in  New  York.  We  are  gathered  here  because  of 
those who believed, following the tragedy of the Second 
World War, that an international order based on rules 
and  dialogue,  rather  than  on  relationships  of  power, 
would lead us to peace and prosperity. They were right. 
Given the considerable challenges and transformations 
we must face in the world today, no person or country 
has  the  capacity  to  stand  alone.  By  that  I  mean 
globalization, inequality, war and internal conflict, as 
well as extremism, migration flows and climate change, 
and even health crises and the digital revolution. It is 
our shared responsibility — the responsibility of each 
and  every  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  —  to 
ensure that international institutions and organizations 
are up to the task of supporting us in this endeavour. 
Unfortunately,  there  seems  to  be  a  tendency  at  the 
moment  to  seek  the  answers  to  these  problems  in 
nationalist  isolation  and  in  increasing  mistrust  with 
regard to cooperation between States.
We are seeing a new international order take shape, 
with new actors and a new middle class. According to 
the World Bank, between 1990 and 2015 — in a single 
generation — the number of people affected by extreme 
poverty  fell  from  2  billion  to  700  million,  a  result 
that can be described as exceptional. What is of great 
concern to us today, however, is that these changes have 
gone hand in hand with the erosion of the international 
system  founded  on  the  rule  of  law.  I  believe  that  we 
are witnessing a real crisis in multilateralism, perhaps 
paradoxically at the very moment when we are trying 
to forge the main pillars of the global governance of the 
future.  As  a  country  that  is  interconnected  and  open 
to  the  world,  Switzerland  understands  the  value  of  a 
working  international  legal  order  based  on  exchange 
and  multi-stakeholder  dialogue,  which  guarantees 
stability and is consistent with Swiss values as they are 
set out in our Constitution.
There  are  crises  currently  ongoing  in  many  parts 
of  the  world,  some  of  which  have  been  there  for  a 
very  long  time,  particularly  the  Middle  East,  where 
re-engaging in dialogue is the only option. Switzerland 
is working for a just and lasting peace between Israelis 
and Palestinians in accordance with international law 
and the relevant Security Council resolutions, based on 
a negotiated two-State solution.
The  conflict  in  Syria  has  entered  its  eighth  year, 
with no real end in sight. The basic rules and principles 
of  international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights 
are not being respected. In recent months the conflict 
has  intensified  further  on  various  fronts.  More  than 
18-29775
15/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
13  million  men,  women  and  children  in  Syria  are 
dependent on humanitarian aid. It is essential that we 
step  up  our  efforts  to  find  a  political  solution  to  the 
conflict.  Only  a  negotiated  solution  that  includes  all 
sectors  of  Syrian  society  can  guarantee  lasting  peace 
and sustainable reconstruction in Syria and the region 
as a whole.
In Yemen, too, the conflict has been going on for 
years.  The  armed  conflict  has  deprived  millions  of 
people  of  water,  food  and  medical  care.  Switzerland 
calls  on  all  parties  to  cease  hostilities  and  come  to 
the  negotiating  table  to  seek  solutions  to  end  this 
humanitarian crisis. In that regard, Switzerland remains 
ready  and  willing  to  play  its  part  —  for  example,  by 
hosting peace talks in Geneva under the auspices of the 
United Nations.
Large-scale  health  crises  accompany  all  of  those 
conflicts. The spread of disease, especially in war zones 
and refugee camps, is a major burden on weakened or 
ruined health systems. In that regard, it is vital to protect 
health-care facilities and personnel in order to maintain 
working health systems and access to medical care.
The  United  Nations  is  truly  the  cornerstone  of 
peaceful coexistence between all States, in accordance 
with  the  rules  we  have  established  together.  It  is 
indispensable  and,  above  all,  ideally  placed  to  tackle 
contemporary  challenges,  especially  the  fight  against 
inequality. To fulfil that role, the United Nations must 
be strong. If it is to make the maximum impact with the 
means at its disposal, it must adapt to an ever-changing 
environment  and  constantly  re-examine  its  working 
methods.  Switzerland  is  therefore  an  active  supporter 
of  the  reform  programmes  launched  by  Secretary-
General António Guterres. Those reforms, in the areas 
of  peace  and  security,  development  and  management, 
aim  to  ensure  the  relevance  and  effectiveness  of  the 
United Nations in the face of current global challenges. 
We  are  engaged  on  multiple  fronts.  Today  I  would 
like  to  address  the  following  points.  I  shall  begin  by 
addressing the Sustainable Development Goals.
Switzerland  is  working  actively  to  implement 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
its  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  have  been 
working to put a robust monitoring mechanism in place 
to  provide  for  voluntary  national  reviews  and  report 
on  progress  made  towards  achieving  the  Goals.  More 
specifically, we have contributed, with other countries, 
to providing better statistical data. We are also engaging 
with  innovative  projects  in  areas  such  as  health  care, 
education, energy and innovation. Nonetheless, we are 
all aware that there is still work to be done to combat 
global warming and the negative environmental impacts 
of economic development.
I want to take this opportunity to stress the essential 
contribution of culture and cultural diversity to building 
a sustainable and successful society. Without a policy of 
culture, there is no economic, social or environmental 
sustainability. Culture must therefore occupy a central 
place in development policies. In January, more than 30 
countries reaffirmed culture’s essential contribution to 
our lives, as well as the importance of culture overall, 
in the Davos declaration.
Secondly, with regard to the Human Rights Council 
and the International Criminal Court, respect for human 
dignity  and  fundamental  rights  is  not  optional  but 
rather  an  obvious  necessity  for  stable  and  sustainable 
development.  Switzerland  strongly  supports  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
both  based  in  Geneva,  with  a  view  to  enabling  them 
to fulfil their duty to promote, strengthen and protect 
human rights in the world. International cooperation is 
also essential in preventing conflict and establishing a 
framework  for  lasting  peace.  I  would  like  to  mention 
in  particular  the  fight  against  impunity.  Switzerland 
worked  for  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
exactly 20 years ago. We will continue to support that 
unique international cooperative effort at the service of 
the victims of the most serious crimes.
Thirdly, I would like to speak about Geneva and the 
good offices of Switzerland. We intend to continue to 
build bridges, support negotiations and mediation and 
use our diplomacy and good offices to help countries and 
international and regional organizations find solutions 
to  conflicts  and  create  space  for  new  reflections  and 
new  topics.  In  Geneva,  Switzerland  makes  all  of  the 
preparations  needed  so  that  discreet  peace  talks,  of 
the  kind  undertaken  by  the  parties  to  the  conflicts 
in  Syria  and  Yemen,  can  take  place.  Geneva  is  also 
home to several United Nations agencies — the World 
Health  Organization  and  the  International  Labour 
Organization — in addition to numerous international 
organizations. Geneva can therefore serve as a platform 
for dialogue on new challenges at the interface between 
politics,  society,  innovation,  science  and  economy. 
I would mention in particular of the areas of Internet 
16/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
governance  and  digitalization.  Those  topics  develop 
and 
increasingly  require  synergies  and  dialogue 
between the traditional arenas of international action. 
However, Switzerland’s role is not limited to Geneva. 
For example, we have actively contributed to the process 
of negotiating the global compact for safe, orderly and 
regular  migration,  and  we  are  grateful  for  the  trust 
placed in Switzerland in that regard. The management 
of migration flows at the global level is an enormous 
undertaking that necessitates the participation of all the 
relevant stakeholders.
Mr.  Beleffi  (San  Marino),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Policies relying on trade protectionism and selfish 
interests  are  enjoying  a  certain  popularity  at  present. 
They would like us to believe that the world is a zero-
sum  game  and  that  there  are  no  winners  without 
losers.  However,  today,  as  in  the  past,  withdrawal, 
protectionism,  threats  and  violence  will  not  provide 
answers  to  the  dysfunctions  and  disparities  of  the 
world in which we live. Worse still, such policies can 
lead only to a drop in trade and, ultimately, a decline 
in  prosperity.  They  nurture  mistrust  and  isolation, 
which 
competition 
and  innovation.  Our  world  will  become  all  the  more 
impoverished,  both  spiritually  and  culturally,  and  we 
will  set  off  alone  in  search  of  solutions  for  problems 
that can only be solved together.
knowledge-sharing, 
obstruct 
The  current  malaise  serves  as  a  warning  that  we 
must do everything we can to prevent a world in which 
we  look  out  only  for  ourselves,  and  to  encourage  a 
world  of  cooperation  between  States,  in  which  we 
strive for the common good, for causes such as peace, 
sustainable development and environmental protection. 
We can overcome the challenges and causes of growing 
inequality, demographic change or migration only if we 
approach them with a spirit of mutual trust. All States are 
winners if we see others as potential partners instead of 
competitors. All States are stronger if the international 
situation  is  more  stable.  The  world  is  not  a  zero-sum 
game. To the contrary, it is a positive-sum game.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Alain  Berset,  President  of 
the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Maithripala Sirisena, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sirisena  (spoke  in  Sinhalese;  English 
interpretation provided by delegation): It is with great 
pleasure that I stand before the members of the General 
Assembly  this  evening  at  the  seventy-third  session 
representing Sri Lanka for the fourth time.
Sri  Lanka,  as  a  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  has  acted  in  accordance  with  treaties  and 
conventions  of  the  United  Nations  at  all  times.  For 
the  past  three  and  a  half  years,  I  have  been  the  Head 
of State of Sri Lanka, and today we are quite pleased 
with the progress we have made during my presidency. 
I was elected President of Sri Lanka in January 2015. 
At  that  time,  the  country’s  executive  presidency  held 
excessive powers. In fact, those powers exceeded those 
of a monarch, reaching almost the level of an emperor’s. 
However,  I  handed  over  to  the  Sri  Lanka  Parliament 
those excessive powers. It is with pleasure that I inform 
the  Assembly  of  the  manner  in  which  I  let  go  of  the 
excessive powers of the executive presidency.
During  the  past  three  and  a  half  years,  we  have 
taken  action  to  consolidate  democracy,  human  rights 
and the fundamental rights of the people. Furthermore, 
the  freedom  of  media  and  the  independence  of  the 
judiciary  have  been  strengthened.  That  is  why  I  can 
state  with  dignity  that  the  Sri  Lanka  we  see  today  is 
entirely different from the Sri Lanka of three and a half 
years ago.
I also urgently want to draw the Assembly’s attention 
to the fact that as States Members of the United Nations, 
we have certain responsibilities and duties to the world. 
For  instance,  the  United  Nations  must  focus  greater 
attention  on  trends  in  international  politics  today. 
When  we  are  talking  about  such  worldwide  trends, 
the issue of refugees is a major and very complex one, 
18-29775
17/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
as we all know. The United Nations, its Members and 
many other organizations today render a great service 
in  supporting  refugees.  However,  those  efforts  need 
to  be  more  expansive  and  further  strengthened  to  the 
benefit of refugees.
Sri Lanka follows a non-aligned foreign policy and 
is one of the most senior members of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned  Countries.  A  very  successful  summit  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement was held in Sri Lanka in 
1976. Sri Lanka considers every nation of the world a 
friend. We have no enemies in the world today, and we 
are very happy about that.
With  regard  to  trends  in  international  politics,  I 
believe that the issue of the Palestinian people requires 
greater attention from the United Nations and all world 
Powers.  Sri  Lanka  has  always  supported  the  freedom 
struggle of the Palestinian people. Many inhumane acts 
have  been  committed  in  that  region,  and  I  therefore 
believe that the United Nations and every nation of the 
world must stand strong to prevent them.
Among  the  many  other  problems  plaguing  the 
world,  poverty  is  a  major  issue  affecting  the  world’s 
populations  today.  I  believe  that  the  United  Nations 
must  be  more  involved  in  fighting  poverty.  Hundreds 
of  millions  of  people  across  the  world  spend  their 
days  in  hunger  as  a  result  of  income  disparities  and 
climate change, giving rise to many issues in terms of 
alleviating  poverty  and  battling  the  consequences  of 
climate change. In the face of the many challenges that 
cause poverty, I believe that major efforts are needed in 
countries heavily affected by climate change in order to 
help people become prosperous.
As  I  said,  there  are  many  issues  plaguing  the 
world. The arms racket, the drug problem and the issue 
of  illegal  pharmaceuticals  are  also  major  concerns 
affecting society today. I am happy to note that action 
was taken yesterday, with President Donald Trump of 
the  United  States,  and  the  United  Nations,  to  bring 
together  the  nations  of  the  world  through  the  Global 
Call  to  Action  on  the  World  Drug  Problem.  That  is 
something  we  greatly  appreciate.  Ending  the  drug 
menace requires extensive efforts from each and every 
country, working together with the United Nations.
Furthermore,  at  the  international  level,  we  know 
that  the  United  Nations  plays  a  very  important  role, 
particularly  through  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change,  which  is  of  huge  significance  to  everything 
living  on  Earth.  As  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
Sri Lanka ratified the Agreement. I would like to draw 
members’ attention to the fact that we are committed to 
taking the necessary action on agreed matters under the 
Paris Agreement.
When it comes to Sri Lanka, as I mentioned earlier, 
we  have  taken  action  to  consolidate  democracy  and 
strengthen fundamental rights, including human rights 
and  media  rights.  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  Sri 
Lanka suffered from a long-drawn-out conflict for 30 
years. It has now been 10 years since the conflict ended, 
during which time a massive transformation has taken 
place in Sri Lanka, especially during the past three and 
a half years. The Government in Sri Lanka has taken 
action on the post-war situation. We have strengthened 
national  reconciliation  and  taken  steps  to  ensure  that 
the  war  cannot  recur,  with  an  extensive  programme 
currently  being  implemented  to  achieve  that.  With 
regard to human rights, the Government is continuing 
to  fulfil  its  duty  to  protect  the  people’s  rights  and  to 
seek the support of the United Nations in strengthening 
the programme, which is the course of action that we 
want to follow.
Sri  Lankan  forces  were  able  to  defeat  one  of  the 
most  brutal  terrorist  organizations  in  the  world.  That 
is  why  Sri  Lanka  today  has  emerged  strongly  as  a 
country  that  is  permanently  at  peace.  Our  security 
forces  defeated  a  very  serious  terrorist  organization. 
Here I would like to very respectfully salute the efforts 
made  by  the  Tri-Forces  of  Sri  Lanka  to  bring  peace 
to  our  country  and  strengthen  its  unity.  As  I  said,  10 
years have now passed since the end of the conflict. I 
therefore encourage the international community not to 
think of Sri Lanka as it did 10 years ago but to view it 
from a fresh perspective. We suffered a difficult war, 
and  today  permanent  peace  prevails  in  our  country. 
My  Government  has  been  undertaking  many  actions 
to  consolidate  reconciliation.  Human  rights  are  being 
protected  and  economic  prosperity  is  being  achieved 
for a better future for Sri Lankans, and our future as a 
peaceful nation therefore deserves to be looked at from 
a fresh perspective.
I  urge  the  international  community  to  allow  Sri 
Lankans  to  resolve  their  problems  on  their  own.  A 
nation’s  independence  is  of  the  utmost  importance. 
But  our  humanitarian  efforts  and  our  work 
to 
strengthen  democracy 
international 
community’s  cooperation.  If  Sri  Lanka  is  to  continue 
in  its  commitment  to  forging  ahead  in  consolidating 
democracy  and  protecting  human  rights,  it  needs  the 
require 
the 
18/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
international community’s attention. As an independent 
country,  we  reject  any  efforts  by  foreign  Powers  to 
exert  influence  on  us.  We  appeal  to  the  international 
community to give us room to resolve our problems and 
to respect the Sri Lankan people’s right to find solutions 
to their problems. And while that is something that we 
are very willing to do, I would also like to ask for the 
international community’s cooperation in making that 
a reality.
We  are  working  to  eliminate  fear  and  suspicion 
among  the  various  ethnic  groups  in  our  country,  and 
I believe that with the cooperation of the international 
community that can be achieved, not only in Sri Lanka 
but  in  many  other  countries  of  the  world.  The  poor 
must  be  given  priority.  The  new  generation  deserves 
to be heard. They need to be provided with solutions to 
their problems.
In conclusion, I would like to cite a verse from Lord 
Buddha found in the Salla Sutta of the Samyutta Nikaya 
in the Tripitaka, where it is said that a man pierced by 
an arrow feels two kinds of pain: first, the physical pain 
caused  by  the  arrow  and,  secondly,  the  mental  pain 
resulting  from  his  anxiety  about  what  has  happened. 
Similarly, the people of Sri Lanka have suffered both 
the  physical  pain  of  the  war  and  the  feelings  that  it 
arouses. I therefore urge the international community 
to extend its support and cooperation to Sri Lanka.
I  thank  the  Assembly,  and  may  the  Noble  Triple 
Gem bless us all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Borut Pahor, President of the 
Republic of Slovenia
the  Republic 
the  General 
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of 
of  Slovenia,  was  escorted 
into 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Borut Pahor, President of 
the Republic of Slovenia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Pahor:  It  is  always  an  honour  to  take 
part in this great General Assembly.
Today we live in a world where new challenges are 
multiplying and old ones never seem to go away. The 
multilateral system is being challenged. It is a system 
that we have spent more than 70 years building and that 
should prevent humankind from ever again experiencing 
the horrors of war. It is a system that ensures respect for 
human rights and international law and that promotes 
social  progress,  development  and  better  standards  of 
living for everybody.
The  case  for  multilateralism  is  clear.  As  Member 
States, we all have the responsibility to find common 
solutions  to  the  common  threats  and  challenges  we 
face, while protecting the principles and values of the 
Charter of the United Nations. That spirit of cooperation 
and common responsibility must guide our work in the 
years to come. No nation or State will make gains if it 
strives only to assert its own interests.
In  today’s  unpredictable  world,  I  urge  us  all  to 
unite  our  efforts  to  strengthen  multilateralism  as  the 
only viable way to secure peace and security for future 
generations.  My  country,  Slovenia,  stands  firm  in 
defence of that multilateralism, with the United Nations 
at its core. The Republic of Slovenia’s commitment to 
the multilateral system remains as strong as ever, based 
on shared values, the rule of law and human rights.
We should all strive to make the United Nations a 
stronger and more efficient Organization, reformed in a 
way that means it can respond and assist in solving the 
most pressing concerns of our time. Slovenia strongly 
supports  the  reform  efforts  by  Secretary-General 
António Guterres. A lot has been achieved during the 
past year, but progress needs to continue.
At  the  end  of  the  day,  the  success  of  the  United 
Nations  reform  largely  depends  on  us,  the  Member 
States.  It  depends  on  our  political  will  and  ability  to 
translate words into action for the benefit of all of us. 
We hope that will also give fresh impetus to the reform 
of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  secure  a  fairer 
representation of today’s world.
Only  a 
rules-based 
international  order  can 
guarantee  the  equality  of  peoples  and  nations.  If  we 
want to create a more stable, peaceful and just future, 
Member  States  must  adhere  to  international  law. 
Respect  for  international  law  and  the  rule  of  law  is 
18-29775
19/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
a  precondition  to  living  in  peace  and  security  for  all 
States — the entire international community.
Given that I come from a country adjacent to the 
Western  Balkans  region,  I  would  like  to  stress  the 
importance of international law and the judgments of 
international  courts  in  relation  to  the  reconciliation 
process  in  that  region.  Recognizing  and  accepting 
historical  facts,  no  matter  how  painful  they  are,  is 
the basis for stability and progress, both of which are 
needed in the Western Balkans region.
I  also  wish  to  emphasize  the  necessity  of  full 
respect  for  human  rights,  which  is  always  pertinent, 
particularly in today’s world. Without that, there can be 
no peace, security or development. The United Nations 
has been instrumental in promoting respect for human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  worldwide,  but  we 
must not forget that the primary responsibility for their 
fulfilment  lies,  once  again,  with  the  State.  No  State 
rights, emergencies or political reasons can ever excuse 
the violations of human rights.
As the current Chair of the Human Rights Council, 
Slovenia  remains  a  strong  supporter  of  human  rights 
for  all.  My  country  considers  it  important  to  ensure 
that  the  Council  contributes  to  the  strengthening  of 
human rights in the world, perhaps now more than ever 
before. We must all endeavour to ensure the Council’s 
credibility  and  better  effectiveness.  We  sincerely 
hope  and  expect  that  the  United  States  of  America,  a 
traditional promoter and supporter of respect for human 
rights around the world, will remain committed to the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  Through 
dialogue, Slovenia will continue to seek results in the 
process of strengthening the legitimacy, credibility and 
effectiveness of the Human Rights Council.
War,  violent  extremism  and  terrorism  always 
represent an assault on human rights. Those atrocities 
shock us to the core of our human conscience. Effective 
law-enforcement measures are indispensable in the fight 
against terrorism, but terrorism will never be defeated 
by security measures alone. Our endeavours to counter 
and prevent terrorism have to be comprehensive, while 
also targeting the root causes of radicalization.
torn  society  to  recover  from  conflict  as  well  as  to 
preventing  future  human  rights  abuses.  Slovenia  is  a 
strong  supporter  of  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
We stress the importance of effective cooperation with 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  including  by  the 
Security Council, and we invite States that have not yet 
done so to ratify the Rome Statute.
Slovenia 
supports 
We must preserve and protect the non-proliferation 
architecture, based on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  in  order  to  prevent  the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including 
chemical,  biological  and  nuclear  weapons.  We  must 
implement all binding international treaties concerning 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  particularly  the  NPT, 
whose fiftieth anniversary we are celebrating this year.
pressing 
proliferation issues by diplomatic and peaceful means. 
To  that  end,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  Iran 
nuclear deal, as long as Iran honours its obligations. We 
welcome the recent developments relating to the Korean 
peninsula  and  hope  to  see  its  complete,  verifiable 
and  irreversible  denuclearization.  Slovenia  continues 
to  support  humanitarian  demining,  mine-victim 
assistance and the elimination of unexploded ordnance 
and remnants of war.
resolving 
our 
The  International  Trust  Fund  Enhancing  Human 
(ITF),  a  humanitarian  and  non-profit 
Security 
organization,  was  established  two  decades  ago  by 
the  Slovenian  Government,  and  its  many  activities 
around the globe — from Bosnia and Herzegovina to 
Afghanistan and Colombia — are concrete reflections 
of that support. We are grateful to the many States that 
cooperate and support the demining work of the ITF.
Slovenia  considers 
international  development 
cooperation  an  important  element  of  our  overall 
international  endeavours.  Through 
it  we  support 
efforts in partner countries to eradicate hunger, protect 
the  environment  and  contribute  to  overall  sustainable 
development. Through its efforts in the Western Balkans, 
the European neighbourhood and sub-Saharan Africa, 
Slovenia is directly contributing to the achievement of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Impunity represents one of the major obstacles to 
the  prevention  of  the  grave  and  systematic  violations 
of human rights committed against civilians in armed 
conflicts. All parties to a conflict, including non-State 
actors,  must  comply  with  international  humanitarian 
law.  Ending  impunity  is  essential  to  enabling  a  war-
Slovenia has also taken up the task of implementing 
the 2030 Agenda at the national level and is trying to 
contribute to its implementation at the global level with 
a  sense  of  urgency.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change are, in our view, two documents that together 
20/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
provide a clear path and vision for a more sustainable 
future  for  our  planet  and  prosperity  for  its  people. 
By  the  way,  Slovenia  ranks  eighth  out  of  at  least  150 
countries in realizing the United Nations 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  something  I  am  very 
proud of.
Today  more  than  ever  before,  we  need  a  strong 
multilateral  system  in  which  the  emphasis  must  be 
on  acting  more  collectively,  rapidly  and  effectively.  I 
would like to conclude by assuring the Assembly that 
Slovenia is committed to supporting the United Nations 
and  determined  to  work  with  all  partners  to  deliver 
tangible  and  meaningful  results  that  will  advance 
peace, security, development and human rights for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of 
of  Slovenia,  was  escorted  from 
Assembly Hall.
the  Republic 
the  General 
Address by Mr. Edgar Chagwa Lungu, President of 
the Republic of Zambia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Zambia.
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu, 
President of the Republic of Zambia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
in 
congratulating 
President  Lungu:  Let  me 
join  other  world 
Excellency
leaders 
Her 
Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés on  her  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session. Zambia fully supports her endeavour to 
diligently discharge her responsibilities in the Assembly. 
We are delighted to note that, after more than a decade, 
a woman has once again taken up this important seat 
as the fourth female President of the General Assembly 
since the establishment of this world body.
As the United Nations celebrates its seventy-third 
anniversary next month, it needs to forcefully continue
to  promote  international  peace,  cooperation  and  the 
development  of  societies  that  are  free  from  hunger, 
poverty and disease. In doing so, we should endeavour 
to  explore  new  ideas  and  best  practices  to  meet  the 
expectations  of  our  people,  against  a  backdrop  of  the 
effective and efficient use of limited global resources. 
We are therefore confident that the President will bring 
a fresh dimension to the fore as we jointly seek solutions 
to  the  economic,  social  and  political  challenges  that 
confront us.
Since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations  73 
years  ago,  we  believe  that  Africa  should  have  made 
remarkable  progress.  Yet  Africa’s  economic  structure 
has  only  minimally  changed.  That  is  a  concern  that 
has been voiced at both continental and global forums. 
The  effective  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and  Agenda  2063  of  the 
African  Union  therefore  presents  huge  opportunities 
for  Africa  to  revitalize  its  growth  and  accelerate  its 
transformation.  Both  frameworks  seek  to  achieve 
inclusive  growth,  sustainable  development  and  peace 
and security for the continent.
Zambia’s development path is guided by its Vision 
2030 through the implementation of its seventh national 
development  plan,  which  is  focused  on  transforming 
Zambia  into  a  prosperous  middle-income  country  by 
2030. To achieve that, we must overcome many hurdles. 
Our economy, like many other developing economies, 
needs  to  diversify.  We  are  therefore  determined  to 
address  our  challenges  by  creating  a  diversified  and 
resilient  economy  that  is  driven  by  the  agriculture, 
tourism  and  energy  sectors,  among  others.  That  will 
be  supported  by  a  robust  infrastructure  development 
programme.  In  that  regard,  we  need  strengthened 
and  mutually  beneficial  partnerships  in  the  context 
of  South-South  cooperation,  as  well  as  regional  and 
development  cooperation,  which  remain  crucial  to 
unlocking diversified growth.
Zambia  is  dedicated  to  the  implementation  of 
Agenda  2063  of  the  African  Union,  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  including  on  climate  change, 
and  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  of  the  third 
International Conference on Financing for Development. 
That  is  why  my  Government  has  mainstreamed  those 
global  development  agendas  in  its  seventh  national 
development plan.
I  am  glad  to  note  that  my  Government  has  been 
making steady progress in infrastructure development 
18-29775
21/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
as  a  key  enabler  for  recovery  and  improvement.  We 
are  also  implementing  several  policies  and  structural 
reforms under the Economic Stabilization and Growth 
Programme. As we pursue those goals, we are mindful of 
the challenges in mobilizing financing for development, 
as  well  as  declining  donor  funding,  particularly  for 
least-developed  countries  and  landlocked  developing 
countries. We therefore call on all partners to work with 
us to ensure that together we can effectively implement 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  for  the  good  of 
our people.
It is gratifying to note that the second United Nations 
High-level Conference on South-South Cooperation, to 
be  held  in  March  2019  in  Buenos  Aires,  will  present 
an  opportunity  to  register  significant  progress  on 
development  cooperation  among  the  countries  of 
the South.
To  turn  to  the  issue  of  peace,  since  1945  the 
United Nations and the international community have 
been  consistently  and  strongly  advocating  the  need 
for  the  preservation  and  promotion  of  peace.  Recent 
development  frameworks  have  also  given  prominence 
to  efforts  to  protect  global  peace  and  security.  My 
Government therefore fully supports Security Council 
resolution 2378 (2017), which focuses on peacekeeping 
reforms.  Zambia  is  also  committed  to  the  Secretary-
General’s Action for Peacekeeping initiative, as set out 
in the Declaration of Shared Commitments on United 
Nations  Peacekeeping  Operations,  sent  to  Member 
States by the Secretary-General in August.
I  am  also  glad  to  say  that  my  Government  has 
recently  increased  its  participation  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  and  is  currently  a  major 
contributor  to  peacekeeping  missions.  Zambia  is  also 
one of the countries that has taken the lead in increasing 
women’s participation in peacekeeping operations. We 
also  join  other  Member  States  in  saluting  the  gallant 
men and women in blue helmets for the sacrifices they 
are making to foster peace in the world.
In our continuing efforts to contribute to regional and 
world peace, Zambia recently took up the chairmanship 
of the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security of the 
Southern African Development Community. I can only 
assure Member States that we will discharge that duty 
with the utmost dedication to the cause of regional and 
world peace and security.
On  gender  equality  and  women’s  economic 
empowerment,  I  want  to  reaffirm  my  Government’s 
commitment  to  eliminating  all  forms  of  violence  and 
discrimination against women and girls. We are making 
efforts to review and enact new legislation and policies 
that  are  gender  responsive.  Progress  is  also  being 
recorded on the implementation of our 50-50 enrolment 
policy,  as  schools  are  now  compelled  by  law  to  enrol 
equal numbers of girls and boys.
commenced 
In  2017  my  Government 
the 
distribution  of  free  sanitary  napkins  to  girls  in  rural 
and suburban areas in an effort to keep girls in school. 
That  programme  was  introduced  in  order  to  improve 
girls’ access to education, as a lack of proper sanitary 
napkins  often  limits  their  ability  to  attend  school.  In 
addition, we have continued to implement the re-entry 
policy for pregnant girls. That programme is a success, 
as a number of girls have been retained in school after 
giving  birth.  We  believe  that  measure  is  critical  to 
ensuring  equal  opportunities  for  our  girls.  We  have 
no  doubt  that  those  and  many  other  efforts  will  lay  a 
firm foundation for our attainment of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  particularly  Goal  5,  on  gender 
equality and women’s economic empowerment.
The world has continued to witness unprecedented 
mass  movements  of  refugees  and  migrants,  which 
has  had  political,  social,  economic  and  human  rights 
ramifications  for  a  number  of  host  countries.  Let  me 
underscore  the  importance  of  collaborative  efforts  on 
the  part  of  the  global  community  in  tackling  issues 
relating  to  the  current  refugee  and  migration  crisis. 
That  will  ensure  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration 
involving full respect for human rights and the humane 
treatment  of  migrants  and  refugees.  We  therefore 
welcome the convening in December of the Conference 
on  International  Migration  and  look  forward  to  the 
upcoming  adoption  of 
the  unprecedented  global 
compact on safe, orderly and regular migration. We are 
hopeful that this will provide us with an opportunity to 
improve global governance on migration and refugees, 
as  well  as  to  strengthen  the  contribution  of  migrants 
to  sustainable  development.  In  that  regard,  I  want  to 
underline  the  importance  of  respecting  the  principle 
of  shared  responsibility  for  hosting  and  supporting 
the  world’s  refugees  and  migrants.  Going  forward,  I 
want to reaffirm my Government’s commitment to its 
international  obligations  under  the  1951  Convention 
relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol, 
whereby  we  will  continue  to  play  a  meaningful  role 
in assisting people affected by conflict situations and 
other human rights violations.
22/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
I want to recognize the decision by the Secretary-
General  and  his  team  regarding  the  progress  made  in 
fulfilling his mandate for reform of the United Nations 
development system, United Nations management and 
the peace and security pillar. However, we are deeply 
concerned  about  the  fact  that  negligible  progress  has 
been made on reforming the Security Council. We also 
want  to  recall  that  in  2000,  during  the  Millennium 
Summit, world leaders called for a speedy and logical 
conclusion  to  the  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. Five years later, at the World Summit, leaders 
expressed  concern  at  the  slow  pace  of  progress  and 
urged that negotiations on Security Council reform be 
expedited. To date, we are still no closer to agreement 
on a fundamental issue that seeks to make the United 
Nations truly representative, democratic and effective.
The  year  2019  will  mark  the  fortieth  anniversary 
since reform of the Security Council became an item on 
the agenda of the General Assembly. The President of 
the Assembly has been entrusted by world leaders with 
leading the process of reforming the Security Council. 
We are therefore hopeful that she will report substantive 
progress by the time we mark the fortieth anniversary 
next  year.  I  want  to  reiterate  that  Africa  remains 
steadfast and united in its call for two permanent and 
five non-permanent seats on the Security Council. Not 
only is that a matter of common decency involving the 
correction of a historical injustice, it is also a matter of 
restoring  the  dignity  of  Africa,  which  today  remains 
the  only  continent  without  permanent  representation 
on the Council. In that regard, we also support the call 
for  a  non-permanent  seat  for  small  island  developing 
countries,  whose  challenges  are  so  unique  that  it  is 
imperative  that  their  perspective  be  incorporated  as 
a new dimension into the United Nations approach to 
international peace and security.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zambia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange, 
President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kabila Kabange (spoke in French): I am 
once again pleased to be speaking from this rostrum, 
as  I  have  for  several  years.  I  would  first  like  to  pay 
tribute  to  a  worthy  son  of  the  African  continent,  the 
late Mr. Kofi Annan, who passed on just a few weeks 
ago, having bequeathed to our Organization a legacy of 
exemplary commitment in the service of peace. I would 
also like to salute the unquestionable leadership of the 
Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, in defending 
a  strong  multilateralism  buttressed  by  a  reformed 
United  Nations.  I  also  extend  my  warmest  and  most 
sincere congratulations to the President of the General 
Assembly at its current session on her election, a clear 
recognition of her experience as a diplomat.
During my address to the Assembly at its seventy-
second session (see A/72/PV.19), I outlined the internal 
situation  in  my  country  from  the  security  point  of 
view,  affirming  that  thanks  to  the  efforts  that  have 
been made, we had succeeded in reversing dangerous 
trends in the central Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  significantly  improving  the  situation  there,  while 
the  outstanding  efforts  of  our  defence  and  security 
forces  in  the  north-east  had  enabled  us  to  contain 
terrorist  attacks.  Today  peace  has  been  consolidated 
in the centre of the country, demonstrated by how far 
we  have  come  in  reintegrating  the  families  that  the 
deplorable violence had forcibly displaced towards the 
interior or forced into neighbouring countries.
However,  the  security  challenge  in  the  north-east 
remains  unresolved  because  of  persistent  terrorist 
activities  that  not  only  affected  the  area  of  Beni  on 
23 September, but have also been a problem for other 
countries in the region. In any case, those attacks, which 
constitute a further challenge to all who are committed 
to the defence of a free world without mindless violence, 
will not prevent us from continuing to work for peace 
and  stability  for  our  country  and,  above  all,  for  the 
security of the electoral process currently under way.
At  the  political  level,  I  commended  the  efforts 
of  the  entire  political  spectrum  in  the  form  of  a 
18-29775
23/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
comprehensive  consensus  on  the  electoral  process 
with  the  ultimate  goal  of  organizing  elections.  I  also 
mentioned the progress that has been made in particular 
in creating a voting register and ensuring the imminent 
publication  of  the  electoral  timetable.  Despite  the 
enormous  challenges  that  still  plague  the  electoral 
process at every level, I can now reaffirm, as I did last 
year, that the timetable for the holding of elections is 
irreversibly  scheduled  for  the  end  of  this  year.  The 
political situation in my country is therefore becoming 
clearer, with all the electoral timetable deadlines kept 
so far. Everything will be done to ensure the peaceful 
and credible nature of the elections, which is evidence 
of  the  strengthening  of  the  political  and  economic 
stability that the Democratic Republic of the Congo so 
greatly needs for its emergence from crisis.
“Making the United Nations relevant to all people: 
global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for 
peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”  is  the 
theme of this year’s session of the General Assembly. 
That suggests an uncompromising view of what we want 
for  our  Organization  and  urges  every  Member  State 
to  value  its  contribution  to  improving  the  universal 
collective. It also urges them to protect the values that 
make the United Nations a bulwark of solidarity, peace 
and shared progress in the face of the profound changes 
that have taken place in the international scene and that 
have been marked by the emergence of new development 
hubs and the appearance of new threats, some of which 
have global repercussions. That once again reinforces 
the  value  of  shared  and  engaged  reflection  on  the 
reform of our Organization with a view to ensuring its 
improved  functioning.  However,  the  effectiveness  of 
our Organization in that new context also depends on 
its ability to preserve the ideals on which the structure 
of  global  equilibrium  that  emerged  in  San  Francisco 
more than 70 years ago are based.
We will not be able to make the United Nations an 
organization for all if we tolerate or allow to become 
commonplace some Governments’ serious interference 
in  matters  that  clearly  fall  within  the  purview  of 
domestic  State  policy,  in  violation  of  the  rules  that 
govern  our  Organization,  which  represents  a  grave 
danger. That is why my country denounces and opposes 
any interference in the current electoral process, and is 
determined to finance all of its operational costs. We 
also demand a return to the fundamentals of democracy 
and human rights, one of the issues at the root of the 
asymmetrical  diplomacy  that  some  make  excessive 
use  of  to  consciously  weaken  countries  that  have 
resolutely  taken  a  path  towards  progress.  Although 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo is only 58 years 
old, and its democracy only 15 years old, we are proud 
today  to  share  our  experience  in  that  area,  both  in 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  in  other  regional  and 
international forums. We do it with humility and in a 
straightforward manner, bearing in mind that the road 
ahead is still long.
Lastly,  we  cannot  make  the  United  Nations  an 
organization  relevant  for  all  people,  with  a  view  to 
achieving  sustainable  societies,  as  long  as  the  fauna 
and  flora  of  countries  with  extensive  forestlands 
serve  only  as  ornaments  —  under  the  well-chosen 
pretext  that  they  are  the  lungs  of  humankind  or  the 
repairers  of  the  environmental  damage  caused  by 
Northern  industries  —  and  if  there  is  no  real  will  to 
allocate substantial rewards for those resources to our 
populations, or to make good on commitments that are 
often made but never kept.
Almost 15 years ago, the African continent spoke 
with one voice in asking that Africa be represented by 
a permanent member in the Security Council, as part 
of  United  Nations  reform.  Given  the  myriad  changes 
over many years and for the sake of equity, which is the 
focus of our meeting here, it is Africa’s wish to speak 
with a louder voice in line with the expectations of its 
peoples, who demand greater representation within this 
Organization, which embodies universalism and whose 
peacekeeping activities primarily concern our continent. 
Moreover,  United  Nations  forces  were  deployed  in 
my  country  20  years  ago,  and  my  Government  now 
reiterates  its  demand,  given  the  fact  that  the  results 
at the operational level of the multilateral forces have 
diminished,  that  the  multilateral  force  effectively  and 
significantly begin its withdrawal.
Mr.  Renzi  (San  Marino),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In conclusion, I want to stress the progress made by 
my country today. Only a few years ago it was mired in 
bankruptcy, but it is now showing indisputable signs of 
new ambitions, underscored by encouraging economic 
and security policies. Our challenges are by no means 
negligible, but that in no way shakes my faith in a bright 
future for my country, in which the people understand 
how  to  overcome  their  history  and  robustly  commit 
to  their  unity,  independence  and  sovereignty.  I  would 
also  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  the  Democratic 
24/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
Republic  of  the  Congo  will  always  stand  by  the 
Organization  as  long  as  it  remains  at  our  side,  as  the 
United  Nations  embodies  in  the  most  concrete  terms 
what  our  collective  efforts  can  achieve  in  bringing 
about  peace  and  the  well-being  of  our  planet.  It  is 
nevertheless  up  to  Member  States  to  work  to  achieve 
a  stronger  Organization  by  preserving  through  their 
actions the values that inspired its foundation and are 
unequivocally aimed at the preservation of humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sooronbai Zheenbekov, President 
of the Kyrgyz Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr. Sooronbai  Zheenbekov,  President  of 
the 
Kyrgyz  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sooronbai  Zheenbekov, 
President of the Kyrgyz Republic, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Zheenbekov (spoke in Kyrgyz; English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Let  me 
warmly  welcome  everyone  on  behalf  of  the  freedom-
loving, ancient Kyrgyz people, with their thousands of 
years  of  history  and  great  mountains.  From  this  lofty 
rostrum  of  the  United  Nations,  I  would  like  to  draw 
everyone’s  attention  to  the  issues  that  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic  believes  to  be  urgent  and  that  require  joint 
solutions  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels. 
(spoke in Russian) 
On behalf of the Kyrgyz Republic, I would like to 
salute  all participants in the General Assembly at its 
seventy-third session.
The global political, economic and environmental 
situation  is  changing  rapidly,  and  the  trend  towards 
regionalism  in  world  politics  is  increasing.  Rising 
prices,  insufficient  liquidity  and  sanctions  wars  in 
economies  continue.  The  threat  of  terrorism  and 
extremism  is  everywhere.  The  preservation  of  an 
environmental balance has become a global issue for the 
whole  planet.  Regardless  of  their  causes,  those  issues 
affect every country, especially small ones with open 
economies.  These  processes  have  become  sensitive 
issues for Kyrgyzstan. I therefore believe that today it 
is extremely timely to discuss in the General Assembly 
the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  to  all  people,  as 
well  as  the  issues  of  global  leadership  and  mutual 
responsibility  for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable 
societies. I would like to take this opportunity from the 
high tribune of the United Nations to outline the issues 
at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels  that  are  of 
relevance to our country.
The  peaceful  transfer  of  power  in  the  autumn  of 
2017  laid  a  solid  foundation  for  Kyrgyzstan’s  further 
progressive democratic development. At present, there 
is  political  and  social  stability  in  Kyrgyzstan,  which 
provides  us  with  the  opportunity  to  set  ambitious 
goals  for  the  medium  term.  Kyrgyzstan  supports  the 
development  of  a  system  of  parliamentary  democracy 
in our country, and the upcoming 2020 parliamentary 
elections  will  attest  to  that  once  again.  We  firmly 
believe that parliamentary democracy is best suited to 
the nature of our society’s development.
The  fight  against  corruption  remains  a  priority 
for the State policy of Kyrgyzstan. As of today, we are 
facing  the  issues  of  the  political  modernization  and 
economic development that the future will require of us.
First  of  all,  we  are  focusing  on  implementing 
judicial  and  legal  reforms  and  reorganizing  our  law-
enforcement  agencies.  The  sustainable  development 
of  every  region  of  Kyrgyzstan  is  key  to  successful 
development  and  is  our  most  urgent  issue.  We  have 
set  ourselves  the  goal  of  improving  the  climate  for 
investment  and  have  begun  building  an  information 
society with a fair and transparent public administration. 
Kyrgyzstan  will  continue  to  consistently  strengthen 
democratic  principles  in  developing  the  State.  Our 
public  administration  is  focused  on  the  needs  of  all 
individuals and on ensuring their rights, freedoms and 
justice in society.
included 
2040 
All  of  these  medium-  and  long-term  reforms 
are 
national 
development  strategy.  The  long-term  provisions  of 
our  national  development  strategy  meet  all  of  the 
in  Kyrgyzstan’s 
18-29775
25/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
requirements  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  and  in  that  connection,  we  hope  for 
further  support  from  the  United  Nations  and  partner 
countries 
for  Kyrgyzstan’s  development  efforts. 
Kyrgyzstan remains committed to the implementation 
of the Sustainable Development Goals.
We  consider  strengthening  the  entire  spectrum 
of cooperation among the countries of Central Asia a 
crucial factor in ensuring the security not only of the 
region  but  of  the  world.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that 
our  cooperation  has  gained  positive  momentum  and 
reached a fundamentally new level. The meetings of the 
Heads of State and Foreign Ministers of the countries of 
Central Asia have become a tradition.
For  the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  the  issue  of  water  use 
is  extremely  important.  The  ways  that  water  and 
energy  resources  have  been  used  in  recent  decades 
in  Central  Asia  show  how  essential  it  is  to  develop 
new  approaches.  We  believe  that  the  integrated  use 
of water and energy resources in the region should be 
determined by a system of measures aimed at achieving 
the sustainable development of all Central Asian States. 
Kyrgyzstan has therefore consistently advocated for the 
development  and  implementation  in  Central  Asia  of 
mutually beneficial economic mechanisms in the area. 
Cooperation  and  multilateral  dialogue  are  considered 
by the Kyrgyz Republic as the only way to solve existing 
challenges.  In  that  context,  we  also  see  a  special  role 
and  a  new  mission  for  regional  organizations  such 
as  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization,  the  Collective 
Security  Treaty  Organization  and 
the  Eurasian 
Economic  Union.  Ending  isolationist  policies  and 
developing 
the  cooperation  and  partnership  have 
become very important today.
No State is immune to threats related to terrorism 
and  extremism.  The  members  of  the  international 
community  must  work  together  more  actively  to 
combat this evil and problems such as drug trafficking, 
trafficking in persons and weapons, money-laundering 
and the financing of terrorism. That is very important 
to  us,  as  we  are  located  at  a  crossroads  of  drug-
trafficking networks. Regrettably, the measures taken 
by  the  international  community  are  still  insufficient. 
It is important to pay special attention to solving this 
general  problem  for  the  region.  Kyrgyzstan  reaffirms 
its commitment to the effective implementation of the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
and  supports  the  Joint  Action  Plan.  It  is  essential  to 
coordinate  the  efforts  of  the  States  of  the  region  on 
issues related to security, improved cooperation and the 
exchange  of  operating  information.  The  Government 
of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  has  approved  a  programme 
for  combating  extremism  and  terrorism  up  to  2022.  I 
thank the United Nations for its financial and technical 
assistance  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  drug 
trafficking,  and  we  hope  for  further  support  from 
development partners for security-related issues.
The move towards sustainable development means 
restoring our natural ecosystems and the environment. 
Kyrgyzstan recognizes climate change as an existential 
threat  to  ecosystems  and  people.  We  committed  to 
counteracting  that  global  threat  by  signing  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  Climate  change  is 
having  an  ever-increasing  impact  on  our  glaciers  and 
water  resources  and  contributing  to  the  increase  in 
natural disasters in our mountainous regions. Those are 
the main topics of the fourth World Mountain Forum in 
Kyrgyzstan, held to discuss new paths to development 
ensuring a prosperous future for mountain regions.
The main environment-related issue in our region 
continues to be the legacy of the radioactive materials 
industry of the Soviet era — that is, uranium tailings. 
Kyrgyzstan  has  held  a  number  of 
international 
conferences  in  an  effort  to  find  solutions  to  it.  We 
held  an  event  at  the  United  Nations  on  27  September 
dedicated to the dangers of uranium mining. With the 
aim  of  reaching  a  new  stage  in  action  for  reclaiming 
uranium tailings, Kyrgyzstan is taking the initiative to 
update resolution 68/218 on the role of the international 
community in averting the radiation threat in Central 
Asia. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our 
development partners for providing significant support 
to my country in solving this problem.
The  issues  I  have  noted  require  the  joint  efforts 
of  all  States  and  of  global  and  regional  institutions. 
There  is  a  growing  need  to  create  fundamentally 
new  international  mechanisms,  adequate  to  modern 
challenges  and 
threats.  Our  Organization  needs 
changes to meet the demands of the times and current 
realities. Its reforms should be based on the principles 
of universality, broad geographical representation and 
the  widest  possible  support  of  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations.  Kyrgyzstan  seeks  to  contribute 
its  fair  share  of  contributions  to  the  common  cause 
of  the  United  Nations  for  peace,  global  security  and 
sustainable development.
26/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
In  order  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  United 
Nations and the world to the problem of small States, 
Kyrgyzstan  has  put  forward  its  candidacy  for  a  seat 
as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council 
for  the  period  from  2027  to  2028.  The  support  of 
countries  that  have  never  had  a  seat  on  the  Council 
will increase confidence in the equality of its members 
and  thereby  raise  and  strengthen  the  authority  and 
credibility  of  the  Organization.  Kyrgyzstan  considers 
the United Nations to be an authoritative and universal 
international organization.
It  should  be  emphasized  that  an  important  factor 
in  preserving  peace,  stability  and  the  development  of 
cultural  diversity  and  tolerance  is  the  deepening  of 
intercultural  dialogue.  That  was  brilliantly  described 
in the works of our distinguished and world-renowned 
writer  Chingiz  Aitmatov.  He  made  a  significant 
contribution  to  building  peace  and  cultural  exchange 
among different peoples. This year, Kyrgyzstan and the 
whole  world  are  celebrating  the  ninetieth  anniversary 
of the birth of Chingiz Aitmatov.
The  initiative  of  Kyrgyzstan  to  hold  the  World 
Nomad Games on a regular basis has been recognized 
and  supported  by  the  General  Assembly.  The  Games 
have  shown 
the  complexities  and 
contradictions of the modern world, the peoples of the 
world strive for unity and creativity.
(spoke in Kyrgyz)
that,  despite 
Our nation considers independence to be its greatest 
achievement,  and  it  has  found  its  worthy  place  in  the 
world community. Kyrgyzstan has been recognized as 
a sovereign State in the international arena. As Chingiz 
Aitmatov,  the  great  son  of  the  Kyrgyz  people  and  a 
famous writer, philosopher and humanist said, “There 
is no greater wealth for man than to live together and 
in peace”.
Only  unity  and  harmony  will  save  the  world. 
The  unity  of  the  people  is  the  main  guarantor  of  the 
sustainable  development  of  our  country.  Inter-ethnic 
friendship in society and the responsible attitude of all 
citizens to their country’s destiny are the foundations 
of  success.  The  independence  of  Kyrgyzstan  and  the 
unity of its people are our future and happiness. May 
God grant his mercy to the people of Kyrgyzstan and 
let peace reign in our land. I wish every citizen of the 
country health, good fortune, and a happy and peaceful 
life. Long live our independent Kyrgyzstan.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Kyrgyz 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Sooronbai  Zheenbekov,  President  of 
the 
Kyrgyz  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Adama Barrow, President of the 
Republic of the Gambia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
the Gambia.
Mr.  Adama  Barrow,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Adama Barrow, President 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Gambia,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Barrow:  All  praise  is  due  to  the 
Almighty Allah for granting us the favour of gathering 
in the Assembly once again to discuss and advance our 
common  global  agenda.  Please  allow  me  to  begin  by 
sincerely thanking His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák 
for the excellent manner in which he presided over the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session.  By 
the  same  token,  I  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa Garcés on her assumption of the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session. 
I  assure  her  that  as  one  of  her  Vice-Presidents,  the 
Gambia pledges its full support and cooperation during 
her tenure of office.
The  theme  of  the  seventy-third  session,  “Making 
the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful, 
equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  is  indeed  very 
relevant  to  today’s  global  affairs.  By  implication,  the 
pursuit of the mission of the United Nations for peace, 
development and human rights also remains as relevant 
today as it was in 1945, when it was adopted in response 
to the horrific experiences and destruction during that 
tragic  era.  Amid  the  complex  multilateral  challenges 
that  continue  to  confront  us  globally,  no  country  can 
thrive or solve all of the challenges it faces in isolation. 
As  human  beings,  our  salvation  lies  in  strengthening 
our  multilateral  institutions  and  fostering  greater 
18-29775
27/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
international  cooperation 
to  collectively 
address global challenges. The United Nations provides 
a unique opportunity to achieve that goal.
in  order 
It is apparent that in order to make real progress, 
effective global leadership is imperative. As leaders, we 
must therefore all shoulder our responsibilities as best 
we  can.  That  should  compel  us  to  support  and  invest 
more in the United Nations, instead of withdrawing our 
participation  or  cutting  back  our  financial  support.  It 
is ironic that at a time when multiple global challenges 
are emerging and mounting, support for the work of the 
United Nations is being undermined through inadequate 
funding. Those of us who value the United Nations, as 
well as those who have benefited immensely from its 
work, should be at the forefront in calling on all Member 
States to step up support for the Organization. Indeed, 
the  United  Nations  must  play  a  lead  role  in  solving 
global challenges, and our task is to ensure that it has 
the required capacity, influence and effectiveness.
Decisions  and  actions  rooted  in  a  rules-based 
international system that is underpinned by multilateral 
agreements  and  processes  form  the  basis  for  the 
successful  conduct  of  relations  between  and  among 
nations.  Let  us  therefore  restore  faith  in  our  rules-
based  international  order,  so  as  to  remain  relevant 
and  collectively  make  progress  on  our  global  agenda, 
ranging  from  tackling  the  menaces  of  climate  change 
and 
trade, 
development and other issues of concern to humankind. 
I am confident that it is only through effective global 
leadership and international cooperation that the well-
being of all of the world’s citizens can be achieved. As 
leaders,  we  have  the  shared  responsibility  to  promote 
a  world  order  that  prioritizes  peace  over  insecurity, 
eliminates  the  growing  inequalities  around  the  world 
and brings us sustainable development.
to  addressing  disarmament, 
terrorism 
With  reference  to  the  Gambia  and  following  a 
difficult political impasse in December 2016, Gambians 
have  managed,  with  the  support  of  our  partners,  to 
restore democracy and the rule of law in our country. 
We  have  completed  our  national  electoral  process  in 
full, after successfully conducting both legislative and 
local  Government  elections.  We  are  also  resolutely 
pursuing institutional and constitutional reforms. Such 
reforms have commenced, with the hope of putting the 
Gambia on a solid path to becoming a shining champion 
of democracy and human rights in the world.
When  Gambians  voted  for  change  in  2016,  they 
were  yearning  to  be  in  charge  of  their  destiny.  They 
wanted  significant,  not  cosmetic,  improvements  in 
their  lives.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  my  Government 
is  now 
implementing  a  comprehensive  national 
development  plan  for  the  period  2018-2021.  The  plan 
seeks to transform the Gambia through key priorities, 
such  as 
infrastructure  development,  agricultural 
transformation,  macroeconomic  stability,  job  creation 
and employment. The plan also seeks to consolidate our 
democratic gains through good governance, the rule of 
law and respect for human and people’s rights. In all, 
our goal is to deliver a fully transformed Gambia that 
has a future, a country that is energy secure, food-self-
sufficient and investment-friendly. We have also begun 
to  exploit  and  harness  the  benefits  of  information 
and  communication  technology  as  a  catalyst  for 
modernization and youth empowerment.
Our  national  development  plan  was  presented 
to  a  successful  donor  conference  in  Brussels,  where 
significant  pledges  were  made  to  help  us  meet  our 
funding  targets.  I  want  to  once  again  express  our 
profound  thanks  to  our  bilateral  and  multilateral 
partners,  including  the  United  Nations,  the  European 
Union,  the  World  Bank  and  many  others,  for  their 
interest  and  support.  We  are  indeed  truly  grateful, 
as  we  look  forward  to  their  continued  collaboration 
and  support  for  our  efforts  to  attain  our  development 
objectives.  The  national  development  plan  will 
continue  to  be  implemented  through  the  partnerships 
and  solidarity  built  at  the  Brussels  meeting.  Quite 
deliberately, the plan is consistent with the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  as  well  as  the  African 
Union’s Agenda 2063.
In our pursuit of a fully transformed Gambia, we 
recognize  the  importance  of  meaningful  engagement 
with  the  Gambian  diaspora,  fondly  referred  to  as  the 
eighth  region  of  the  Gambia.  Our  diaspora  strategy 
seeks  to  explore  and  utilize  the  skills,  talents  and 
resources  of  Gambians  everywhere  for  the  successful 
implementation of our national development plan.
The  Gambia’s  experience  demonstrates 
that 
democracy yields amazing dividends. Remarkably, we 
have noticed a decrease in the number of young people 
attempting  to  undertake  dangerous  journeys  across 
the Mediterranean to Europe. The average Gambian is 
willing to stay in the country and contribute to national 
development.  Despite  those  positive  developments,  I 
strongly urge that interventions to curb youth migration 
28/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
be  supported  through  incentives  to  young  people  to 
stay  in  their  country.  In  that  regard,  we  look  forward 
to the high-level conference in Marrakech in December 
aimed  at  adopting  the  new  global  compact  on  safe, 
orderly  and  regular  migration.  Better  educational  and 
job opportunities must be harnessed for young people 
in  order  to  inspire  them  and  give  them  hope  in  life. 
In  that  regard,  my  Government  stands  ready  to  work 
collaboratively  with  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States and other regional blocs to devise and implement 
suitable strategies and interventions.
As  a  member  of  the  Sahel  region,  the  Gambia 
fully  supports  the  implementation  of  the  new  United 
Nations  Support  Plan  for  the  Sahel,  anchored  in  the 
United  Nations  integrated  strategy  for  the  Sahel.  We 
are  optimistic  that  it  will  contribute  significantly  to 
addressing the challenges of development in the Sahel, 
as  well  as  to  fostering  peace,  security  and  cross-
border  relations.  We  are  particularly  excited  that  the 
new strategy views the Sahel as a land of opportunity 
and not of hopelessness. Given that fact, we envisage 
that  it  will  yield  important  dividends  for  Africa, 
especially with regard to the maintenance of peace and 
security and the elimination of terrorism in the region. 
Strategically,  we  must  disrupt  all  criminal  networks 
and the financing of criminal sales of organs and body 
parts,  using  better  information-sharing  and  cross-
border security initiatives.
As we battle those negative forces and try to fulfil 
our  aspirations  of  silencing  the  guns  on  the  African 
continent  by  2020,  we  are  worried  about  the  state  of 
United Nations peacekeeping missions in some of our 
trouble spots, especially in view of the drastic cuts to the 
peacekeeping budget. The lack of the critical resources 
needed  to  support  peacekeeping  is  quite  worrisome. 
The  Gambia  supports  the  introduction  of  appropriate 
reforms to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations 
for  both  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping,  and  they 
should  be  reconsidered  and  maintained  as  important 
priorities on the Organization’s agenda. My Government 
proposes that we do a better job of protecting the lives 
not  only  of  innocent  civilians  but  also  of  the  men 
and  women  who  constitute  the  peacekeepers.  At  this 
juncture, I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute 
to all the gallant peacekeepers who have fallen. We call 
on  our  partners  to  rise  to  the  challenge  and  stop  the 
prolongation of conflicts, and we therefore support the 
Secretary-General’s agenda for reform.
As  Africans,  we  must  assume  leadership  for 
maintaining peace and security in our continent. In that 
respect, I commend the leaders of Ethiopia and Eritrea 
for  the  extraordinary  efforts  they  have  made  to  bring 
lasting peace to the Horn of Africa, setting an example 
for  the  rest  of  the  continent  to  emulate.  Similarly, 
I  applaud  the  leaders  of  South  Sudan  for  agreeing 
to  restore  peace  and  work  towards  developing  their 
country. We call on the leaders of Libya and the Central 
African  Republic  to  intensify  their  efforts  through 
political dialogue for national reconciliation and peace.
My  Government  reaffirms  its  strong  support 
for  a  two-State  solution  to  establish  peace  between 
their  neighbours.  We  also 
the  Palestinians  and 
unconditionally  recognize 
the  One  China  policy. 
Similarly,  we  recognize  the  support  provided  by  the 
Government and the people of Bangladesh to address 
the plight of the Rohingya Muslims. As the upcoming 
Chair of the next summit of the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation,  the  Gambia  has  undertaken,  through  a 
resolution,  to  champion  an  accountability  mechanism 
that would ensure that perpetrators of the terrible crimes 
against the Rohingya Muslims are brought to book.
Mr. Bessho (Japan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
While  it  is  our  strong  desire  to  see  reform  that 
enables  the  Secretary-General  to  operate  effectively, 
it  is  equally  expected  that  the  reforms  also  facilitate 
the  successful  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  Reform  of  the  Security 
Council is long overdue. I want to remind the Assembly 
that the process truly reflects all interests and positions 
represented  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
We  are  convinced  that  Africa’s  voice  should  be  fully 
represented on the Security Council.
My  delegation  looks  forward  to  a  successful 
seventy-third session, and we hope that the President’s 
election  will  strengthen  efforts  aimed  at  highlighting 
the plight of rural women and girls.
Before  I  conclude,  let  me  express  our  sincere 
condolences to the family of the late former Secretary-
General Kofi Annan. Mr. Annan was a formidable voice 
on everything, including reform of the United Nations. 
He stood for a just world and was a passionate advocate 
of  good  governance  and  fundamental  freedoms.  Kofi 
Annan will surely be greatly missed.
18-29775
29/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of the Gambia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Adama  Barrow,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Hilda Heine, President of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands.
Ms. Hilda Heine, President of the Republic of the 
Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Ms. Hilda Heine, President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly.
President  Heine:  I  have  the  honour  to  bring  the 
Assembly  warm  greetings  of  yokwe  on  behalf  of  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands.
In  its  best  moments,  the  United  Nations  has 
served  as  a  common  platform  for  every  nation,  but 
especially  the  most  vulnerable.  Today  nations  are 
pulling  in  new  directions,  stretching  the  threads  that 
hold us all together and pushing the world to the edge. 
It is imperative that the States Members of the United 
Nations continue to unite behind an international rules-
based  order  that  does  not  overlook  the  voices  of  the 
most  vulnerable  peoples.  As  a  former  United  Nations 
strategic  trusteeship,  the  Marshall  Islands  can  speak 
with authority from its own history of the times when 
the sheer will of the most powerful ravaged our shores 
and  when  the  common  concerns  of  humankind  failed 
us,  as  well  as  those  times  when  it  ensured  that  our 
Marshallese voices mattered. We welcome engagement 
with the world’s largest Powers but they must have our 
best interests at heart.
Human  rights  stand  as  a  challenging  universal 
ideal  that  all  must  aspire  to  and  uphold.  The  Human 
Rights  Council  has  tremendous  potential  to  provide 
transparency  and  dialogue  and  foster  progress.  While 
we  must  take  more  time  to  carefully  connect  global 
norms  and  national  implementation,  because  one  size 
never  fits  all,  the  United  Nations  must  never  hesitate 
to stand up to actors who seek to evade what everyone 
else  might  see  as  common  decency.  And  that  is  not 
an  abstract  statement.  From  our  own  history  and 
contemporary challenges, the Marshall Islands knows 
the dire consequences that arise when the international 
community  looks  the  other  way  because  of  political 
expediency.  Far  more  political  will  is  needed  to 
truly  ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  Whatever  the 
shortcomings  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  it  is  the 
responsibility  of  Member  States  to  address.  We  must 
fix it ourselves. We will not stand by in silence.
For  those  reasons,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands  has  put  forward  its  candidacy  for  the  Human 
Rights  Council  for  the  term  from  2020  to  2022.  Real 
commitment is in actions, not in words. As an example, 
we  have  not  only  enacted  disability  rights  legislation 
to meet our treaty obligations, we currently have a bill 
before Parliament that amends more than 100 existing 
statutes to ensure that we mainstream rights across all 
sectors. We are moving towards a similar undertaking 
on  the  issue  of  gender.  Our  partners,  including  the 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific,  have  already  been  key  sources  of  assistance, 
but  it  is  our  political  will  that  can  make  it  a  reality. 
Human rights are not just treaty signatures; they are a 
visible step-change in our local communities.
Small  nations  can  have  a  unique  role  within  the 
multilateral  system.  We  would  not  have  the  United 
Nations Law of the Sea, the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change or a great many other 
outcomes  but  for  the  political  will  of  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDs).  We  represent  a  quarter  of 
this  body’s  membership,  but  does  the  United  Nations 
system invest equally in us? We will struggle to tackle 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  unless  there  is 
urgent  attention  to  putting  our  own  data  capacity  to 
use  from  the  international  system.  Many  of  our  core 
social  development  indicators  sit  stagnant.  While  we 
are trying to change all of this, we cannot do so without 
an international system that is directly focused on our 
unique character.
I strongly support the Secretary-General’s initiative 
for United Nations system reform — to do more and do 
it better, with the resources at hand. Our present United 
Nations Resident Coordinator is not a resident at all and 
faces the impossible task of effectively serving 10 remote 
nations at once. I look forward to the upcoming review 
of the United Nations multi-country offices, mandated 
in  resolution  72/279,  and  urge  innovative  solutions. 
30/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
This year is a key opportunity for the United Nations 
system  to  make  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of 
Action  Pathway  for  small  island  developing  States  a 
real opportunity for system change.
Decades  ago,  small 
island  developing  States 
warned  the  world  of  the  risks  of  climate  change,  and 
those  are  still  radical  threats.  Now  we  must  spend 
time  on  advocacy.  It  is  time  that  we  literally  do  not 
have. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change stands 
strong  as  a  powerful  and  united  legal  commitment 
on  the  part  of  all  —  the  largest  and  smallest  among 
us  —  to  sparing  no  effort  in  doing  more  to  ensure  a 
rise in average temperatures of no more than 1.5º C. I 
strongly  support  the  Secretary-General’s  forthcoming 
2019 climate summit. It is an opportunity at the highest 
levels for leaders to reshape headlines and put the Paris 
Agreement  into  motion  by  responding  to  the  urgent 
needs for enhanced action and ambition at true scale. It 
is not just a moral promise, but an economic reality, as 
energy markets already point to better choices.
I am not asking others to do things that we will not 
do at home. This week, I announced that the Marshall 
Islands is transitioning to a net-zero emissions target by 
2050. We are already taking action, not only to meet that 
goal but also to increase our near-term ambitions and 
accelerate adaptation efforts. In raising our ambitions, 
I know we will not be alone. The Pacific Islands Forum 
leaders,  in  last  month’s  Boe  Declaration,  declared 
climate change to be the single greatest security threat 
to our region. That political will must extend to urgent 
and  prioritized  assistance  to  help  atoll  nations  such 
as  the  Marshall  Islands,  whose  very  survival  is  at 
risk, to adapt to the climate-driven threats we already 
face and prevent a future tipping point only a decade 
or two away. Much more political effort is needed on 
scaling  and  targeting  climate  finance  so  that  good 
intentions from partners can make a visible impact in 
local communities.
As a low-lying atoll island nation little more than 
one metre above sea level, the Marshall Islands have a 
future that hangs in the balance, but that is not the case 
for us alone. Although as an atoll nation we are the most 
vulnerable, we are joined not only by other small island 
developing States but by many other countries that face 
serious challenges posed by climate impacts. As Chair 
of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, I call on every leader 
in the world to join me on 22 November in an online 
virtual summit to ensure that no one and no country is 
left behind.
The  Marshall  Islands  emerged  from  the  colonial 
period, the Second World War and the effects of nuclear 
testing  conducted  more  than  six  decades  ago.  As  we 
were adopting our Constitution in 1979 and becoming 
a State Member of the United Nations in 1991, we were 
focused  entirely  on  building  a  nation  to  leave  behind 
for  our  children.  Only  27  years  later,  now  facing 
the  consequences  of  climate  change,  we  are  asking 
ourselves what legacy we as a nation will leave for our 
grandchildren to inherit.
Last year’s United Nations Ocean Conference set the 
stage to ensure that the oceans, which cover two thirds 
of  the  world’s  surface,  must  no  longer  be  an  isolated 
silo  but  must  become  an  integral  part  of  sustainable 
development  and  global  commitment.  The  Marshall 
Islands is more than 99 per cent ocean. It is our culture, 
our  primary  economic  pathway  and  our  identity.  The 
world must move far beyond words and towards actions 
because we should all be gravely alarmed at what has 
too often become a downward spiral.
Earlier  this  year,  the  eight  Pacific  leaders  of  the 
parties to the Nauru Agreement Concerning Cooperation 
in the Management of Fisheries of Common Interest met 
in the Marshall Islands, the first such leaders’ meeting 
since 2010. In the intervening years, we have rewritten 
the playbook for global tuna markets, working to ensure 
that ours will not only be an economic lifeline for our 
future  generations  but  will  also  remain  a  valuable 
source of global food security and the world’s largest 
sustainable purse-seine tuna fishery.
In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the  outreach  and 
engagement of the Group of Seven leaders, under the 
leadership of Canada, to focus on oceans and fisheries. 
International  development 
finance  sources  must 
improve  targeted  delivery  and  direct  support.  Marine 
plastic pollution is crippling global waters, and illegal 
fishing  in  the  Pacific  is  more  than  a  violation  of  law 
and  treaty,  it  is  a  major  regional  security  issue.  Next 
week,  the  Marshall  Islands  will  host  the  launching 
of  a  regional  initiative  for  a  Pacific  region  free  of 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  in  order 
to  eradicate  illegal  fishing  from  our  region  once  and 
for all. Enhanced efforts on illegal fishing are needed 
from  regional  fisheries  management  organizations, 
and  we  should  not  be  afraid  to  name  and  shame  the 
worst offenders.
As the first woman Head of State or Government 
in  the  independent  Pacific  islands  region,  I  say  that 
18-29775
31/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
it is vital that the United Nations accelerate efforts to 
ensure  that  all  women,  and  especially  our  youngest 
generations, must see that they have a rightful role at all 
levels of decision-making, including the highest levels 
of  political  leadership  and  economic  development. 
After all, we women represent the half of the world’s 
population  that  is  not  yet  fully  reflected  among  the 
ranks of global leaders.
For  too  many  years,  multilateral  discussions  to 
end  nuclear  weapons  have  gone  in  circles.  I  strongly 
welcome  progress  whenever  it  is  found  and  remain 
cautiously  optimistic  of  efforts  towards  a  safe  and 
secure  Korean  peninsula,  with  complete,  verifiable 
and  irreversible  denuclearization.  However,  until  that 
is  achieved,  the  Marshall  Islands  strongly  affirms  its 
commitment to the full implementation of the Security 
Council’s sanctions, including in the maritime sector.
Threats of atmospheric testing in the Pacific Ocean 
are  of  obvious  concern  to  me  and  my  fellow  Pacific 
island  leaders,  and  for  every  Marshallese citizen, 
the  effects  of  nuclear  testing  are  not  only  a  historical 
legacy,  but  a  contemporary  reality.  Those  were  the 
only instances where the United Nations ever explicitly 
authorized  the  testing  of  nuclear  weapons,  and  the 
consequences  have  been  horrific.  The  67  nuclear 
weapons tests conducted between 1946 and 1958 have 
affected multiple generations.
Those  tests  took  place  at  a  time  when  we  held 
status  as  a United  Nations  strategic  trust  territory, 
including  testing  that  was  authorized  by  United 
Nations  Trusteeship  Council  resolutions  1082  (XIV) 
and 1493 (XVII). That is a burden that no other nation 
or  people  should  ever  bear.  That  is  not  only  a  lesson 
that  the  world  must  learn  from,  but  a  situation  where 
the  United  Nations  has  already  offered  its  assistance. 
My Government recently established a national nuclear 
commission  to  work  carefully  with  affected  local 
communities  and  regional  and  international  agencies 
to  better  elaborate  our  complex  issues  and  develop  a 
strategy  for  nuclear  justice.  It  is  vital  that  we  make 
every  possible  effort,  with  all  possible  speed,  to  help 
us address human rights issues and the environment of 
our affected people.
The Security Council and the United Nations as a 
whole must adapt and change. This is not the world of 
seven  decades  ago.  It  is  important  to  realize  Security 
Council  reform  and  launch  text-based  negotiations 
for Security Council reform during this session of the 
General Assembly.
Decolonization  and  human 
rights  are  both 
important  issues  in  the  Pacific  islands  region.  I 
strongly affirm the position of the Pacific Island Forum 
leaders  in  recognizing  the  constructive  engagement 
of  Forum  countries with  Indonesia  with  respect  to 
elections and human rights issues in West Papua, and 
the commitment to continuing dialogue in an open and 
constructive manner.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands supports the 
recognition of Taiwan’s meaningful participation within 
the  United  Nations system,  including  programmes 
and  agencies  such  as  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization, the World  Health  Organization and  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change. The people of Taiwan deserve equal treatment, 
and the United Nations should resolve the serious issue 
of the exclusion of Taiwan’s 23 million people from the 
United Nations system, an issue that we believe is not 
addressed in resolution 2758 (XXVI).
Taiwan  has  been  implementing  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  has  released  a  voluntary 
national  review.  It  has  the  capacity  to  contribute  to 
a  wide  range of  United  Nations  programmes  that  are 
relevant to global progress. Diseases such as tuberculosis 
know  no  boundaries,  and  Taiwan  has  brought  its 
policy  framework  in  line  with  global  efforts.  Taiwan 
has  served  as  a  primary  partner  of  my  own  nation  in 
addressing non-communicable diseases, which are now 
at  crisis  levels.  Blocking  Taiwan’s  participation  does 
not benefit global human welfare.
In conclusion, it is imperative that, as truly united 
nations,  we  take  to  heart  the  national  motto  of  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, Jepilpin ke Ejukaan, 
which  translates  as  “accomplishment  through  joint 
effort”.  What  we  do  as  leaders  at  the  United  Nations 
and beyond is a legacy for the next generation and those 
that follow.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made.
Ms. Hilda Heine, President of the Republic of the 
Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
32/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
Address by Mr. Danilo Medina Sánchez, President 
of the Dominican Republic
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez, 
President of the Dominican Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Medina Sánchez (spoke in Spanish): At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador 
María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  as 
President of the General Assembly and to wish her every 
possible success. It is a great honour for me to be able 
to once again address the Assembly as President of the 
Dominican Republic. This is a special occasion for our 
country, because next year the Dominican Republic will 
sit on the Security Council as a non-permanent member 
for the first time.
On  behalf  of  the  Dominican  people  and  myself, 
I  would  therefore  like  to  start  by  thanking  the  States 
Members of the United Nations for the support we have 
received in joining the Security Council. In particular, I 
thank the members of the Group of Latin American and 
Caribbean States for the trust placed in us. Our purpose 
during our term will be to contribute a voice for Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  to  one  of  the  forums  for 
greater  global  responsibility 
the  maintenance 
of peace.
in 
Of course, we are committed to asserting, both in 
the  Security  Council  and  in  the  Assembly,  the  same 
unbreakable principles that guide us as a nation. Respect 
for  human  rights,  democracy,  freedom  and  diversity 
will therefore be the beacon that we will follow in order 
to guide our work in the Security Council. We will do 
everything  possible  to  honour  the  trust  placed  in  us, 
being  fully  aware  that,  although  fragile,  stability  and 
security are priority objectives that must be preserved 
and progress made towards, step by step and day by day.
It is clear to us that in a space that addresses issues 
that  can  change  the  course  of  history  and  the  fate  of 
millions  of  people,  we  cannot  seek  easy  and  drastic 
solutions,  which  in  any  case  do  not  exist.  In  that 
context, our country will always be a place of dialogue 
and  understanding,  and  will  always  seek  peaceful 
solutions. We are always willing to do whatever it takes 
to find common ground and support consensus as the 
best tool for peace and development. We will therefore 
always promote rapprochement among peoples through 
mediation and democratic dialogue, opening spaces for 
a future of shared peace.
Since  its  founding  more  than  seven  decades  ago, 
the United Nations has played a central role in creating 
a  more  stable  and  secure  world  for  human  beings 
across  the  globe.  However,  we  can  never  consider 
stability a definitive achievement. We cannot lower our 
guard  when  we  know,  for  example,  that  in  our  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  region  alone,  35  per  cent  of 
the population belongs to the so-called vulnerable class 
and could therefore fall back into poverty when faced 
with any setback.
By the same token, it is fair to recognize that like 
so many other things, security is not well distributed. 
We all know that there are territories in the Americas 
and in many other places around the world where the 
prospect  of  living  peacefully  and  without  fear  is  an 
almost utopian vision, due to the control that organized 
crime exercises in those territories.
What can we do, then, to make this a more stable 
world? What measures can we implement to ensure that 
security is not solely the asset of a select few countries, 
but one that extends throughout the world and reaches 
every  neighbourhood  and  village?  Of  course,  I  am 
not  the  only  one  asking  those  questions  —  everyone 
here  has  asked  them  at  some  point  —  nor  will  I  give 
definitive answers, which can be formulated and found 
only  by  working  together.  What  I  will  do  is  briefly 
mention  what  I  consider  two  of  the  main  threats  to 
global stability and security. I am referring to climate 
change and drug trafficking and organized crime.
At first glance, they may seem very different from 
each other, but their complexity and global scope makes 
them  two  of  the  main  challenges  facing  humankind. 
In both cases, the consequences are the destruction of 
thousands of families, collateral damage to all aspects 
of human development and the overwhelming of States 
by the magnitude of the challenges they face.
Let us start by talking about the consequences of 
natural disasters, which are occurring more and more 
frequently. We only have to open the newspaper or turn 
on  the  television  to  see  the  effects  of  climate  change 
wreaking  havoc  somewhere  on  the  planet.  From  the 
18-29775
33/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
typhoon that recently hit the Philippines, the strongest 
in  decades,  to  the  hurricane  seasons  that  punish  the 
Caribbean islands with increasing ferocity, no corner of 
the world is safe. Last year we saw Hurricane Irma leave 
Havana  totally  flooded,  and  it  took  many  weeks  for 
things to return to normal. Meanwhile, in Puerto Rico, 
Antigua and Barbuda and other Caribbean islands, it has 
taken months to recover from the effects of Hurricane 
Maria, which not only brought about economic losses 
but also claimed a considerable number of human lives.
In  the  Dominican  Republic,  we  are  strongly 
committed 
the  consequences  of 
climate  change.  That  means  that  we  are  working 
simultaneously on three levels of action, local, national 
and international. It is at the local level where people’s 
daily  lives  develop.  It  is  there  that  tragedies  take 
on  a  painful  reality  and  where  the  work  of  building, 
preparing and raising awareness must begin.
to  dealing  with 
It  is  at  the  local  and  national  levels  where  our 
Government has a greater capacity to act and where we 
are improving resilience and relocating the communities 
that live around our most significant watersheds, which 
are  highly  vulnerable  to  meteorological  events.  We 
are  also  doing  a  great  deal  of  public  awareness  work 
and  training  thousands  of  teachers  and  technicians 
to  promote  sustainable  development  in  their  schools 
and communities.
Then  there  is  the  national  level,  where  we  are 
also  working  tirelessly,  both  on  our  rapid-response 
strategies and in the field of prevention. For instance, 
we  are  planting  millions  of  trees  across  our  country 
and  investing  more  than  ever  before  in  renewable 
energy.  Those  measures  will  not  only  support  our 
economy, they will enable us to reduce our emissions 
of greenhouse gases by 25 per cent by 2030, a goal that 
we are very pleased about.
However,  the  fight  against  climate  change  is  a 
task for all of us, and that is why the next level — the 
international level — is the broadest and most essential 
of  the  three.  If  there  is  no  political  will  in  this  area, 
most of our efforts will come to nothing and will have 
a  negative  impact  on  all  the  progress  we  have  made 
at  the  local  and  national  levels.  That  is  why  I  would 
like  to  reiterate  once  again  before  the  Assembly  the 
importance  of  going  beyond  good  intentions  and 
focusing on concrete actions.
Among those actions, I want to once again highlight 
the  urgency  of  financing  and  making  operational 
initiatives such as the Warsaw International Mechanism 
for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts, which will make it possible to compensate for 
the  destruction  of  infrastructure  and  ecosystems  and 
alleviate  the  threatening  conditions  of  our  residents. 
That fund is essential to ensuring that natural disasters 
do not destroy in a few hours what many nations have 
spent decades building.
I  will  give  one  example,  on  the  understanding 
that  our  case  is  not  the  most  tragic  in  the  Caribbean 
region.  Last  year,  the  storms  Olga  and  Maria  spelled 
the  destruction  of  more  than  $1  billion  worth  of 
infrastructure. Imagine what that means for a country 
whose  annual  State  budget  is  already  limited.  Above 
all,  the  Warsaw  fund  will  help  protect  the  valuable 
lives of millions of human beings, bringing them peace 
of  mind  for  their  homes  and  granting  them  a  future 
without a constant uncertain feeling of threat every time 
they see that rain is coming. We therefore consider it 
indisputable that those countries that have most heavily 
contributed  to  the  gas  emissions  that  are  responsible 
for climate change are also those that should contribute 
proportionally  to  the  fund  established  to  mitigate 
its effects.
As  I  described  earlier,  we  also  consider  drug 
trafficking and organized crime to be a threat to global 
security and stability of a similar magnitude to that of 
climate  change.  The  trafficking  of  illicit  substances 
claims  thousands  of  lives  every  year,  particularly 
of  young  people,  who  are  extremely  valuable  to 
our  countries.  As  if  that  were  not  bad  enough,  drug 
trafficking also permeates our institutions, unbalances 
our economies, threatens our values and brings nothing 
but  degradation  and  destruction  to  our  social  fabric. 
Wherever  organized  crime  prevails,  the  security  and 
peace of our peoples always deteriorate over time. As 
with climate change, therefore, the fight against drugs 
must be conducted at all three levels — local, national 
and international — in order to achieve effective results.
In  the  case  of  our  country,  local  intervention  is 
focused  on  prevention  campaigns  and  educating  our 
young  people  by  supporting  them  with  training  and 
entrepreneurial  opportunities,  while  also  improving 
the  neighbourhoods  where  they  live  and  recovering 
public spaces for people to use. We do all of that with 
the aim of saving the most vulnerable populations from 
criminal networks.
34/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
At  the  national  level,  our  security  forces  and 
national  drug  control  directorate  are  working  all 
over  the  country  as  part  of  a  comprehensive  plan  to 
strengthen our actions against drug trafficking. Among 
other  initiatives,  we  are  acquiring  new,  high-tech 
equipment and strengthening security at our ports and 
airports with more agents and security checks, as well 
as carrying out in-depth interventions in areas with the 
highest incidence of crime. In parallel, we have moved 
forward  with  the  enactment  of  a  law  against  money-
laundering and the financing of terrorism, based on the 
recommendations  of  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force, 
with an emphasis on preventing and combating money-
laundering,  which  drug  traffickers  use  to  ensure  the 
profitability of their activities.
Finally, at the international level, we have bilateral 
and  multilateral  agreements  in  place  with  the  United 
States,  the  European  Union  and  the  countries  of  the 
Central  American  Integration  System,  as  well  as 
participating in the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative, 
all  with  the  objective  of  coordinating  efforts  and 
improving our efficiency in combating drug trafficking 
and  organized  crime.  Thanks  to  such  initiatives,  we 
are better prepared to fight together against that evil, 
which threatens the integrity of our economies and our 
democracies. However, we must emphasize the need for 
greater international coordination.
We can make great strides forward if we join our 
efforts,  share  information  and  support  each  other  in 
our  work.  We  also  understand  that  showing  greater 
commitment is the responsibility of countries that due 
to  their  domestic  demand  for  narcotics,  have  set  in 
motion the international machinery of drug trafficking 
and  organized  crime.  We  cannot  ignore  the  fact  that 
it  is  the  developing  States  that  act  as  the  first  barrier 
in  containing drug trafficking, thereby protecting the 
most developed countries.
Our countries allocate billions of dollars each year 
to fulfilling that role, but it is never enough in the face 
of  the  huge  resources  deployed  by  organized  crime 
networks. That is undoubtedly a key factor in the social 
disintegration  that  many  of  our  countries  are  dealing 
with. As in the case of climate change, it is the more 
developed countries with greater consumption capacity 
that  must  dedicate  more  resources,  cooperation  and 
political  will  if  they  truly  wish  to  fight  the  problem 
with any hope of victory.
In  combating  the  effects  of  drug  trafficking  and 
climate change, we will address some of the structural 
causes  of  deeper  poverty  and  social  inequality.  If  the 
United  Nations  and  the  developed  countries  want  to 
help  fight  poverty  more  comprehensively  and  openly, 
those  two  fronts  are  an  intelligent,  humane  and  cost-
effective way to do so. We once again appeal to those 
countries from this rostrum to show the responsibility 
and solidarity we need to make our planet a safer place.
Climate  change,  drug  trafficking,  poverty,  social 
inequality  and  mass  migration  are  all  interrelated 
problems that we must deal with urgently. As we have 
pointed out today, the best and perhaps only way to do 
that is to act at all levels of response to the problem, so 
that the agreements we sign in a forum like the United 
Nations have a real impact on the lives of the people, 
and so that the needs of our peoples are articulated in 
their national and international institutions.
We must therefore all continue to act according to 
our  capacities,  without  hesitation  and  with  the  same 
objective of creating a world that is increasingly stable, 
secure  and  developed,  a  world  in  which  all  men  and 
women can carry forward their life dreams. That is the 
ultimate goal that the Dominican Republic will continue 
to work for. We will do it in our towns, neighbourhoods 
and  all  of  our  cities;  with  our  immediate  neighbours 
and with all members of the General Assembly; and in 
the Security Council next year, in the new role that we 
will be honoured to assume.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Chairman of the Presidency of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United Nations His Excellency Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, 
18-29775
35/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Izetbegović: It is my honour to address 
the  Assembly  for  the  fourth  and  final  time  as  the 
Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
I  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  leadership 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. 
He  worked  tirelessly  together  with  Secretary-General 
Guterres to make the Organization more effective. I am 
glad that the agenda for this year’s session will maintain 
a focus on those efforts.
I congratulate Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés 
on  her  election.  The  fact  that  she  is  only  the  fourth 
woman to hold the presidency of the General Assembly 
since 1946 is a reminder that gender equality and the 
empowerment of women must remain our top priority.
Two years ago, from this rostrum (see A/71/PV.12), 
I reflected on a number of ways and means to make our 
world more just and prosperous for all. Standing here 
today,  I  do  not  see  much  to  rejoice  about  in  terms  of 
the progress we have made. Challenges have continued 
to  multiply  uncontrollably.  Old  conflicts  have  been 
magnified and new ones created. When compared to the 
past three decades, more countries are now engulfed in 
crises that are more violent and disruptive and result in 
ever greater divides. Those modern crises and conflicts 
are rarely confined to their place of origin. They shake 
entire  regions  and  often  proliferate  further  into  the 
transnational arena.
Record  numbers  of  civilians  are  victims  of 
indiscriminate  yet  deliberate  armed  attacks.  Many 
more  are  subjected  to  persecution,  discrimination, 
marginalization  and  violations  of  basic  human  rights. 
Many  others  fall  victim  to  natural  disasters.  The 
number of refugees, displaced persons and those in dire 
need of humanitarian assistance continues to rise.
It  is  through  that  lens  that  I  want  to  reflect  on 
three  issues  that  are  critical  to  addressing  the  global 
problems that we face — multilateralism, international 
law  and  the  rules-based  international  order.  I  believe 
that  adherence  to  multilateralism,  compliance  with 
international law and shared commitment to the rules-
based global order is our only hope and the only way to 
resolve the complex challenges that confront us.
Whether  it  be  conflict  prevention  or  resolution, 
change,  nuclear 
security,  development, 
proliferation,  terrorism,  migration  or  human  rights, 
climate 
none of these problems can be successfully addressed 
or  resolved  by  one,  three  or  five  countries  alone. 
Each  and  every  one  of  those  issues  has  transnational 
dimensions.  Effective  responses  require  an  exercise 
in  responsibility  and  respect  for  agreed  international 
norms and standards, strong coalitions based on mutual 
trust, and progressive, inclusive and democratic vision 
and  leadership  that  embrace  a  new  understanding  of 
national sovereignty.
Yet  today  we  are  witnessing  severe  attacks  on 
the  rules-based  international  order  and  the  purposes, 
principles  and  norms  of  international  law,  which 
threaten  to  seriously  undermine  international  peace 
and security. There are plenty of examples in our recent 
past that show what disregard for international law and 
the  rules-based  international  order  can  bring.  Those 
dark chapters of our history were a direct result of the 
community  of  nations  failing  to  uphold  the  rules  and 
norms on which our world order has been based when 
those very same rules and norms were challenged.
Our  citizens  want  to  live  in  a  peaceful  world  in 
which  human  dignity  is  respected  and  fundamental 
human  rights  and  freedoms  are  protected.  That  is 
the  raison  d’être  of  the  Organization.  That  obligation 
goes  far  beyond  our  national  borders  or  interests.  No 
Government can focus only on delivering stability and 
prosperity to its own people while ignoring what goes on 
beyond its national borders, in its neighbourhood and in 
the wider world. To paraphrase Franklin Roosevelt, the 
structure for meeting any of the numerous challenges 
we face, including building and sustaining world peace, 
cannot be the work of one man or one nation large or 
small, but must be the cooperative effort of the whole 
world.  Those  words  resonate  today  in  the  same  way 
they did over seven decades ago.
Cooperative  approaches  have  been  key 
to 
eliminating  smallpox,  vaccinating  record  numbers 
of  infants  against  preventable  diseases  and  beating 
back  the  menace  of  AIDS.  Concerted  efforts  and  the 
alliance  of  all  nations  are  necessary  to  contain  the 
risks of nuclear confrontation and successfully address 
global  issues  such  as  gender  equality,  climate  change 
or the prosecution of war criminals at the international 
level.  The  spirit  of  multilateralism  is  essential  in 
order  to  achieve  and  maintain  peace,  security  and 
development around the world. A man who championed 
multilateralism in his lifelong work on the world stage, 
former Secretary-General Kofi Annan, once said:
36/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
“More  than  ever  before  in  human  history,  we 
share a common destiny. We can master it only if 
we face it together. And that ... is why we have the 
United Nations.”
We  must  reaffirm  this  Organization  of  unified 
nations  as  the  true  embodiment  of  multilateralism. 
It  is  the  only  forum  that  brings  together  almost  200 
countries to seek joint solutions to global problems that 
affect us all. It is the only forum that has the capacity, 
dedication  and  compassion  to  solve  those  problems. 
It is the only forum where the voices of both big and 
small  countries  can  be  heard  equally,  even  if  all  of 
those  voices  are  not  always  equally  acknowledged. 
Bosnia and Herzegovina is strongly committed to the 
preservation and strengthening of the United Nations, 
its  values  and  principles,  its  missions  and  mandates, 
and its relevance, credibility and cohesion.
Time and again, we must remind ourselves of the 
fundamental  values  and  principles  that  are  enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations and that embody 
the  essence  of  the  rules-based  international  order. 
Those  principles  and  values  remain  as  relevant  today 
as they were in 1945. The primary responsibility of the 
Organization  and  all  its  States  Members  is  to  uphold 
and  protect  those  commitments  in  the  face  of  the 
modern challenges that profoundly test them.
The strong leadership and engagement of the United 
Nations, in particular its Security Council, in line with 
the  norms  of  international  law,  are  indispensable  in 
situations  such  as  those  in  Ukraine,  Syria,  Iraq  and 
Libya,  and  in  other  crisis  areas.  Yet  our  responses 
to  modern  crises  and  conflicts  have  unfortunately 
been  marked  by  a  disregard  for  international  law, 
departures from multilateralism and a failure to adhere 
to the rules-based international order, by inaction and 
indifference to human suffering and violations of basic 
human rights.
Let  us  look  at  the  Middle  East,  for  example.  The 
conflict in Syria has entered its eighth year, and we are 
nowhere close to bringing it to a resolution. Some of the 
most sustained violations of international humanitarian 
law in modern times, including the indiscriminate use 
of  chemical  weapons,  have  gone  unabated.  Civilian 
casualties are constantly on the rise. The humanitarian 
situation keeps deteriorating.
The same applies to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 
which  has  lasted  for  more  than  half  a  century  and 
brought  about  immense  human  suffering.  Holding 
a  region  hostage,  as  individual  national  interests 
compromise the interests of civilians who are caught in 
endless cycles of violence, is unacceptable.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  will  continue  to  support 
multilateral  efforts  to  find  solutions  that  will  bring 
sustained peace and stability to the Syrian people and 
meet the legitimate expectations of both the Israelis and 
Palestinians  of  having  two  democratic  States,  living 
side by side within secure and recognized borders, in 
line  with  international  law.  As  much  as  finding  such 
solutions is a political question, it is also a matter of our 
common humanity.
Our shared ambition to leave no one behind is also 
put at serious risk by the evolving threat of radicalization, 
violent extremism and terrorism. That modern scourge 
easily finds fuel to sustain it not only in armed conflicts 
but also in social and political injustices, discrimination, 
marginalization and exclusion, poverty, unemployment 
and economic disadvantage.
Violent extremism and terrorism transcend physical 
and virtual borders. They constantly change tactics and 
invent new ways and means to spread. Extremists and 
terrorists  remain  intent  on  driving  a  wedge  between 
and within societies, hindering our efforts to maintain 
peace  and  security,  protect  human  rights  and  foster 
sustainable development. Our response must therefore 
be decisive, coherent, comprehensive and grounded in 
the international counter-terrorism framework that we 
have created. Bosnia and Herzegovina remains strongly 
committed to contributing to global efforts to counter 
and eradicate that modern menace in all its forms and 
manifestations. This is a profound challenge of our time 
that needs to be confronted at every step and by every 
means at our disposal.
The  United  Nations  peacebuilding  architecture 
remains  as  important  as  ever  in  addressing  all  the 
challenges that persist on the path towards sustainable 
peace  around  the  world.  We  recognize  the  value  of 
introducing  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding  efforts 
at  an  early  stage,  alongside  peacekeeping  activities. 
Bosnia and Herzegovina supports the vision and efforts 
of Secretary-General Guterres to mainstream conflict 
prevention  and  peacebuilding  as  priorities  of  the 
United Nations.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is proud of its contribution 
to those goals through our participation in the United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
in  South  Sudan, 
Cyprus, Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of the 
18-29775
37/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
Congo and Mali. We have joined more than 130 other 
countries and organizations in endorsing the Secretary-
General’s  Declaration  of  Shared  Commitments  on 
United  Nations  Peacekeeping  Operations.  We  support 
his  efforts  to  make  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions stronger and more effective.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
the most powerful connector among the various pillars 
of the United Nations work. Its implementation is the 
most important pathway to global peace, security and 
prosperity.  It  will  help  States  and  societies  establish 
resilient institutions that are able to detect, manage and 
absorb tensions; address and eliminate the root causes 
of  conflicts  and  prevent  their  recurrence  and  create 
conditions  for  inclusive  and  sustainable  development 
by  reducing  poverty,  inequality  and  discrimination, 
ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and  combating 
environmental  degradation.  The  2030  Agenda  is  a 
catalyst  for  sustainable  and  inclusive  development 
rooted  in  respect  for  economic,  social,  cultural,  civil 
and political rights. We believe that it is the best way to 
prevent conflicts and instability.
Strong  global  and  regional  cooperation,  whether 
on  matters  of  conflict  prevention  and  resolution,  the 
fight  against  terrorism  or  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda,  is  essential  to  the  success  of  all  those 
efforts.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  strongly  values  the 
cooperation  we  have  established  within  our  region 
of  the  Western  Balkans.  We  remain  committed  to 
advancing that cooperation, including on our joint path 
towards membership in the European Union.
Bosnia and Herzegovina strives for the protection 
and promotion of values and principles that are shared 
by all countries. We believe that the ideals, values and 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations 
and the norms and standards inscribed in international 
law should never be violated or disregarded. We believe 
that it is the obligation of all countries — big and small, 
powerful or less powerful — to uphold the noble values 
and  principles  on  which  the  Organization  is  built.  If 
any  of  us  lacks  the  will  to  uphold  those  values  and 
principles, then all our endeavours will be less valuable 
and less successful.
On that note, I leave the Assembly with the words of 
a great man, Nelson Mandela, as we mark the centenary 
of his birth,
“What counts in life is not the mere fact that we 
have lived. It is what difference we have made to the 
lives of others that will determine the significance 
of the life we lead.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of 
the Republic of Mozambique
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Mozambique.
Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic 
of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Filipe  Jacinto  Nyusi, 
President of the Republic of Mozambique, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Nyusi  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have  the 
great  honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly  in  the 
general debate of its seventy-third session.
We  warmly  salute  Her  Excellency  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  and  congratulate  her  on 
her election to preside over this session of the General 
Assembly, which is meeting under the theme “Making 
the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful, 
equitable  and  sustainable  societies”.  We  assure  her 
of  the  full  support  of  Mozambique  as  she  discharges 
her mandate.
We 
congratulate 
the 
outgoing 
President, 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  on  his  outstanding  success 
and  commitment 
international 
community towards implementing the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
to  mobilizing 
the 
We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  António  Guterres,  for  his  dedicated 
work  and  leadership  of  the  Organization  on  behalf 
of  the  causes  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
sustainable development.
38/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
I would also like to express our deep condolences on 
the passing of former Secretary-General Kofi Annan. 
Mr. Annan honoured Africa and the whole world with 
his devotion to just global causes. The Assembly is also 
taking  place  at  a  time  when  we  are  celebrating  what 
would have been the 100th birthday of Nelson Mandela, 
that icon in the fight for freedom, peace, equality and 
fraternity. Those two great men should inspire us in our 
collective fight for a better world of peace, prosperity, 
security and welfare for our peoples.
Mozambique acknowledges the role of the United 
Nations  in  promoting  dialogue  and  defending  the 
principle  of  the  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflicts 
that  continue  to  affect  peoples  and  nations,  violating 
human  rights  and  hindering  sustainable  and  inclusive 
development. The United Nations is the mother forum 
of  multilateral  dialogue,  uniting  States’  commitments 
to implementing global agendas and other instruments 
aimed at enabling us to achieve shared objectives. An 
unequal and fractured world requires multilateralism to 
address its gaps. The progress that has been made so far 
demonstrates unequivocally that the global imperative 
of  sharing  responsibilities  is  an  essential  element 
in  building  a  peaceful,  just  and  harmonious  world. 
Examples  of  that  include  the  implementation  of  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change and recent efforts 
to eliminate nuclear arms and to regulate and humanize 
migration  with  a  view  to  averting  humanitarian 
catastrophes.  From  that  list,  I  should  also  point  to 
matters relating to human rights and good governance, 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  and  financing  for 
development, among others.
In that regard, Mozambique supports the Secretary-
General  in  his  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations 
system with a view to ensuring that it is fit for purpose. 
Mozambique  also  commends  his  inclusive  approach 
in engaging the States Members of the United Nations 
at  every  stage  of  the  process.  In  addition  to  those 
ongoing  reforms,  accelerating  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  is  another  urgent  and  important  element  that 
will go a long way to reaffirming the relevance of the 
role of the United Nations in its quest for sustainable 
solutions  to  the  challenges  to  peace  and  security 
that  humankind  is  facing.  The  difficulty  of  reaching 
consensus among Member States on negotiating these 
issues also limits the Security Council’s capacity to act 
as  one  of  the  Organization’s  pillars,  without  which  it 
will be impossible to successfully implement the 2030 
Agenda. Those reforms will effectively ensure that the 
United Nations is relevant to all peoples, which is what 
we all desire.
With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  Mozambique 
continues  to  follow  with  deep  concern  the  many 
continuing flashpoints of political instability represented 
by  inter-  and  intra-State  conflicts,  particularly  in 
Africa and the Middle East. We have closely followed 
the  tensions  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  as  well  as  the 
growing problems everywhere of fundamentalism and 
violent  extremism.  We  hope  that  the  peace  initiatives 
under  way  at  the  global  level,  as  well  as  measures  to 
suppress  the  recruitment  and  curb  the  financing  of 
terrorist groups, will enable us to continue to promote 
further peaceful development for their peoples.
The  right  to  self-determination  of  the  peoples  of 
Western  Sahara  and  Palestine  remains  a  concern  for 
the  international  community.  The  lack  of  progress  on 
the  issue  of  a  referendum  on  self-determination  for 
the  people  of  Western  Sahara  is  a  continuing  source 
of  concern  for  all  peace-loving  peoples.  With  regard 
to  the  Palestinian  problem,  we  believe  in  a  two-State 
solution,  based  on  two  peoples  living  side  by  side 
and  on  the  principles  of  international  law  related  to 
good-neighbourliness,  peaceful  coexistence,  dialogue 
and  tolerance.  And  Mozambique  once  again  joins  the 
majority of States present in this Hall in appealing for 
the  normalization  of  political,  diplomatic,  economic 
and  financial  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States of America.
to 
Mozambique  has  also  dedicated  much  effort  to 
removing  obstacles  to  peace,  promoting  inclusiveness 
and  creating  an  environment  conducive  to  equitable 
and  sustainable  development.  Our  commitment  to 
a  constructive  national  dialogue  has  enabled  us  to 
make significant progress in resolving differences and 
building  an  effective,  lasting  and  sustainable  peace, 
which has gone a long way to creating an environment 
conducive 
strengthening  national  unity  and 
reconciliation and restoring our economy. After I was 
sworn  in  as  Head  of  State  in  January  2015,  I  decided 
to  personally  commit  to  the  quest  for  peace.  I  made 
that commitment because my country and people were 
still  struggling  with  tragic  conflicts,  fomenting  wars 
and  punishing  the  people.  Happily,  the  weapons  in 
my  country  have  been  silent  for  more  than  two  years 
now,  thanks  to  the  direct  dialogue  I  engaged  in  with 
the late leader of the Mozambican National Resistance 
Movement.  There  is  now  a  consensus  on  all  that  we 
have accomplished in my country, and peace has been 
18-29775
39/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
my  biggest  achievement  as  President.  In  July,  as  a 
result of our dialogue, Mozambique saw our Assembly 
enact  a  bill  amending  our  Constitution  and  changing 
our  electoral  laws,  introducing  innovative  elements 
to our efforts to decentralize the country with a view 
to  settling  post-electoral  conflict  and  strengthening 
our democracy.
Those  concrete  steps  in  the  political  dialogue  are 
an  indelible  landmark  in  our  country’s  multiparty 
history,  as  we  intend,  unlike  in  previous  election 
cycles,  to  hold  our  next  general  election  without  any 
armed  political  parties.  A  process  of  disarmament, 
demobilization and reintegration is therefore under way 
for the remaining armed elements of the opposition. As 
proof  that  Mozambique  is  genuinely  pro-democracy, 
on 10 October we will hold municipal elections in 53 
municipalities, with the participation of many political 
parties  and  civil-society  associations.  At  the  end  of 
next  year  we  will  hold  general  elections  in  line  with 
the agreement by consensus approved by the Assembly 
of  the  Republic.  Considering  the  complexity  of  this 
issue, both financially and technically, my Government 
would  like  to  take  this  solemn  opportunity  to  thank 
the  international  community  for  its  support  and  help, 
which is not easy to obtain. We still have more work to 
do  to  achieve  peace,  reconciliation  and  development, 
and we therefore appeal for more assistance to enable 
us  to  ensure  the  success  of  the  process  of  disarming, 
demobilizing  and  reintegrating  the  remaining  armed 
elements, which will begin soon.
The people of Mozambique are determined to live 
in  peace,  and  my  Government  is  also  committed  to 
fighting the organized crime that is destabilizing and 
threatening our efforts to achieve national development. 
We are determined to neutralize the groups of criminals 
that are trying to disrupt public order and tranquillity in 
some parts of the northern province of Cabo Delgado. 
We need everyone to collaborate with us in combating 
those  criminals,  because  their  crimes  are  global, 
involving nationals and non-nationals. We cannot think 
about  democracy  or  human  rights  when  humankind’s 
fundamental right to life is at risk.
Mozambique 
takes 
to 
its  commitments 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  very  responsibly,  and 
we therefore aligned our 2015 national agenda with the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We believe 
firmly that we can create a more just, equitable society 
with greater solidarity by implementing the Goals. They 
represent a basis on which we can broaden social justice 
in our country. My Government has made tremendous 
efforts to implement our national agenda so as to create 
more opportunities for our citizens, particularly women 
and  young  people,  within  a  framework  of  ensuring 
democratic dividends in our society.
Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  everyone 
means  leaving  no  one  behind,  a  hugely  important 
aim  that  we  must  not  neglect.  We  should  therefore 
give special attention to policies and strategies aimed 
at  protecting  people’s  full  enjoyment  of  their  rights, 
promoting  gender  equality  and  improving  capacity-
building for women, young people and other vulnerable 
groups, who make up the majority of our people. Social 
justice also demands that we promote gender equality, 
an area where we have had made significant progress at 
the political, economic and corporate levels.
We have also undertaken efforts to increase access 
to basic health, education, water and sanitation services 
for  all.  Another  key  element  we  are  working  on  to 
solidify  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  for  our 
people  is  ensuring  their  food  and  nutritional  security 
by prioritizing agriculture in our national development 
strategy.  Since  our  new  governance  cycle  began  in 
2015,  we  have  mobilized  our  domestic  resources  and 
encouraged  hard  work  by  all,  and  have  increased  our 
agricultural and livestock productivity, with the aim of 
achieving  one  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
the elimination of hunger by 2030, which will require 
still more public and private investment.
With  regard  to  combating  corruption,  another 
scourge that impedes our ability to achieve our global, 
regional  and  national  goals,  my  Government  has 
promoted measures designed to  improve every aspect 
of  governance,  political,  economic  and  corporate 
by  enacting  laws,  policies  and  strategies  for  fighting 
corruption. We continue to strengthen our institutional 
and human capacity to ensure the enforcement of our 
anti-corruption  laws  and  to  raise  awareness  of  this 
scourge’s  damaging  effects  among  all  members  of 
society  and  institutions.  We  must  always  uphold  the 
principle of the separation of institutional powers.
With regard to climate change, Mozambique, as a 
country very vulnerable to its effects, has continued to 
take measures for adaptation and resilience within the 
framework of the Paris Agreement, which we ratified 
in  June.  We  have  adopted  a  policy  of  biodiversity 
conservation  to  which  25  per  cent  of  our  territory  is 
dedicated. We have also promoted the development of 
40/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate 
communities in the conservation area and encouraged 
their  involvement  in  protecting  and  preserving  our 
valuable  natural  resources.  We  have  fostered  the  use 
of  renewable  energies  in  rural  areas,  the  sustainable 
management  of  natural  resources,  the  conservation 
of ecosystems and biodiversity, and benefit-sharing. I 
would like to appeal from this rostrum for international 
financial and technological cooperation in strengthening 
our capacity to continue our efforts.
like 
the 
unconditional  commitment  of  the  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique  to  the  critical  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  finding  solutions  to  the  problems 
afflicting humankind. The United Nations will always 
be  the  platform  that  brings  all  of  us  together  in  a 
collective commitment to the noble ideas on which this 
universal  Organization  was  founded  —  saving  future 
generations  from  the  scourge  for  war  and  promoting 
social  progress,  better  living  conditions  and  greater 
freedom. Let us continue to be faithful to the supreme 
ideals enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations 
and  work  together  to  build  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable societies.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Mozambique for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic 
of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8
General debate
Address by Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of 
Japan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Abe (Japan) (spoke in Japanese; English text 
provided by the delegation): I have been accorded the 
privilege of continuing to serve as Japan’s leader for the 
next  three  years.  As  I  address  the  General  Assembly 
today  for  the  sixth  consecutive  year,  I  do  so  with  a 
feeling of renewed resolve.
In  the  next  three  years,  I  will  do  everything  in 
my  power  to  strengthen  the  free  trade  system  and  to 
recast the post-war structure of international relations 
in  North-East  Asia.  In  my  view,  the  Japanese  people 
have  been  very  much  hoping  to  see  their  national 
leaders serve as flag bearers for free trade, since after 
the war Japan enjoyed remarkable growth thanks to the 
advantages of trading as a beneficiary of a free and open 
economic  system.  That  free  trade  system  enabled  the 
countries of Asia to achieve take-off one after the other 
and fostered the middle class in all of them, against a 
backdrop of the large-scale direct investment that Japan 
has made in those countries since the 1980s. In every 
case, that was made possible thanks to an international 
economic system that was rules-based, free and open. 
If Japan, the country that reaped the greatest benefits 
of all under that system, should ever fail in its support 
for  maintaining  and  strengthening  that  system,  who 
else should we expect to rise in support of it? Japan’s 
responsibility is indeed tremendous.
This  is  also  Japan’s  mission,  rooted  in  its  own 
history.  Other  than  the  coal  that  supported  modern 
Japan’s  industrialization,  our  nation  has  had  no  other 
resources to speak of. But even though post-war Japan 
lacked resources, when it devoted itself to reaping the 
blessings of trade, it succeeded in realizing growth that 
was called miraculous. Japan was the very first country 
to prove through its own experience the principle of the 
relationship that exists between trade and growth and 
that  has  now  become  common  sense.  Japan  has  now 
taken on the mission of imparting the benefits of trade 
to the world.
There  have  been  times  when  I  have  risen  above 
intense  domestic  debates  by  waving  the  flag  of  free 
trade.  There  was  no  greater  joy  for  me  than  when 
the  Trans-Pacific  Strategic  Economic  Partnership 
Agreement took final shape and was quickly approved 
by  our  National  Diet.  In  addition,  Japan  and  the 
European Union have signed an economic partnership 
agreement whose scale and scope are worthy of special 
mention  in  history.  But  that  said,  we  must  not  be 
complacent. I will have to push my efforts up a notch 
and aim still farther ahead.
In  addition  to  Japan’s  commitment  to  the  World 
Trade  Organization,  which  is  a  given,  I  will  make 
every  possible  effort  to  conclude  negotiations  on  a 
18-29775
41/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
comprehensive  regional  economic  partnership,  which 
will  create  an  enormous  free-trade  area  in  East  Asia. 
And above all, I value our new free, fair and reciprocal 
trade  talks  with  the  United  States.  Japan  and  the 
United States have both advanced the free trade system 
internationally  for  many  years.  That  is  evidenced 
by  the  fact  that  Japan’s  direct  investment  has  created 
employment  in  the  United  States  for  some  856,000 
people nationwide — a number second only to what the 
United Kingdom has achieved. At present, in contrast 
to  the  1.74  million  vehicles  exported  annually  from 
Japan to the United States, the number of Japanese cars 
manufactured within the United States is 3.77 million. 
That  is  a  win-win  situation  at  its  finest.  I  intend  for 
Japan  and  the  United  States  to  continue  that  kind  of 
relationship. But that is hardly unique to our bilateral 
ties with the United States. Under the flag of free trade, 
Japan  has  built  up  relations  with  many  countries  and 
regions where we can mutually assist one another, and 
we will continue to do that going forward. In order to 
expand  free  and  fair  economic  rules,  suitable  for  the 
twenty-first  century,  into  the  vast  region  extending 
from  Asia  and  the  Pacific  to  the  Indian  Ocean,  the 
countries that have created the system and reaped the 
greatest benefits from it — that is to say, countries like 
Japan — must lead the effort. That is what I believe.
At  the  beginning  of  my  statement,  I  said  that  I 
would  do  everything  in  my  power  to  recast  the  long-
standing  post-war  structure  of  international  relations 
in North-East Asia. Together with President Vladimir 
Putin I am now working to end the stalemate between 
our  countries,  which  has  seen  no  movement  for 
more  than  70  years.  President  Putin  and  I  met  at  the 
beginning of this month in Vladivostok for our twenty-
second summit meeting, and I will meet with him again 
in the near future. We must resolve the territorial issue 
between Japan and Russia and conclude a peace treaty 
between  our  two  countries.  Once  a  Japanese-Russian 
peace  treaty  is  signed,  peace  and  prosperity  in  East 
Asia will be more secure.
At this time last year in this very Hall, I strongly 
urged  North  Korea  to  tackle  its  issues  relating  to 
abductions,  nuclear  power  and  missiles  (see  A/72/
PV.8).  As  someone  who  has  called  for  the  full 
implementation  of  all  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions, I am extremely interested in the potential 
for change in North Korea, which is now at a crossroads 
where it will either seize the historic opportunity it has 
been  afforded  or  fail  to  do  so.  North  Korea  has  both 
untapped  natural  resources  and  a  labour  force  whose 
productivity  can  be  greatly  enhanced.  Japan  will  not 
change  its  policy  of  seeking  to  resolve  our  unhappy 
past history and normalize relations with North Korea 
once the abduction, nuclear and missile issues are dealt 
with.  We  will  be  unstinting  in  assisting  North  Korea 
to unleash its potential. However, there is one thing I 
must reiterate over and over again. We will ensure that 
all  Japanese  abductees  are  returned.  I  am  determined 
to make that a reality, and in order to resolve the issue, 
I  am  also  ready  to  break  through  the  wall  of  mutual 
distrust between us and North Korea, make a new start 
and  meet  with  Chairman  Kim  Jong  Un  face  to  face. 
While  so  far  nothing  has  been  decided  regarding  a 
summit meeting between Japan and North Korea, I am 
determined that if we hold one it must help to resolve 
the abductions issue.
I also want to comment briefly on relations between 
Japan  and  China.  The  mutual  visits  at  the  leadership 
level that began this year will continue, with me visiting 
China next month, to be followed by my invitation to 
President  Xi  Jinping  to  Japan,  thereby  expanding  our 
bilateral  relations  and  improving  the  stability  of  the 
entire region.
When  we  have  recast  the  current  confrontational 
geopolitical structure in North-East Asia, the maritime 
corridor  from  the  Arctic  Ocean  to  the  Sea  of  Japan 
and  through  the  Pacific  Ocean  to  the  Indian  Ocean 
will  become  increasingly  important.  Japan,  which 
is  located  right  above  it  and  also  possesses  a  vast 
exclusive  economic  zone,  hopes  that  we  can  ensure 
stability  and  peace  in  those  waters,  as  well  as  in  the 
airspaces above them. The countries of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations lie at the confluence of the 
Pacific and Indian Oceans, and in eras long past it was 
our forerunners, living in what we now call the Pacific 
island  countries,  who  crossed  those  two  oceans  to 
introduce products to faraway East Africa. What I call 
our  free  and  open  Indo-Pacific  strategy  derives  from 
our desire to preserve the blessings of open seas together 
with those countries, as well as with the United States, 
Australia, India and others, and indeed all countries and 
peoples  who  share  those  aims.  What  we  must  ensure 
is that the rule of law and a rules-based order control 
our  broad  and  expansive  seas  and  airspaces,  and  that 
they in turn are backed by solid institutions — hence 
my strategy.
The  other  day,  foreign  students  in  Japan  proudly 
returned  to  their  home  countries  of  Malaysia,  the 
42/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
Philippines and Sri Lanka with new academic degrees 
in  hand,  master’s  degrees  in  maritime  safety  and 
security policy that can be obtained only in Japan. As 
well  as  the  students  that  Japan’s  Coast  Guard  sends 
to  the  programme,  it  also  takes  senior  officials  from 
various  coast-guard  authorities  in  countries  all  over 
Asia. The students who graduated the other day were 
the  third  cohort  to  enter  the  programme.  Maritime 
order is a matter not of power but of the rule of law and 
a  rules-based  order.  Every  year,  a  class  learning  that 
enduring truth and taking it as a guiding principle for 
their  lives  will  head  out  from  Japan  to  the  seas.  That 
is  very  promising,  and  it  is  Japan’s  noble  mission  to 
cultivate the people who will protect and defend a free 
and open Indo-Pacific.
As I was preparing this address, I created a new if 
modest programme. At the beginning of 2019, we will 
invite  approximately  10  elementary  and  junior-high-
school teachers from the Gaza Strip to Japan. That will 
be the first such group and we will continue to invite 
teachers  every  year.  Teachers  who  come  to  a  place 
such as Japan, so different for them both culturally and 
historically, will naturally see the situation in Gaza and 
the  Middle  East  in  a  wider  perspective,  and  we  hope 
that the experience will enable them to see their own 
hometowns and region anew and work in a unique way 
to give them solace. It goes without saying that for peace 
to be achieved, efforts must be made on both sides. But 
hopefully this programme of ours will represent some 
hope  for  the  teachers  from  Gaza  and  the  children  in 
their  care.  Twenty  years  from  now,  200  teachers  will 
have  had  the  experience  of  visiting  Japan,  and  the 
students taught by them will number in the thousands. 
I look forward to that day.
The  goal  of  Japanese  diplomacy,  which  to  some 
extent I have conveyed to the Assembly today, is to help 
to  bring  certainty  to  the  future  of  the  world  and  the 
region. In addition, what I want is for the young people 
who will live in the Japan of the future to vigorously 
take  on  challenges.  The  duty  of  our  generation  is  to 
create  an  environment  conducive  to  that.  It  is  as  if  a 
new breeze is about to blow in Japan.
At the end of April and the beginning of May next 
year,  His  Majesty  the  Emperor  will  abdicate  and  His 
Imperial  Highness  the  Crown  Prince  will  succeed  to 
the throne. In fact, it is the first imperial succession in 
200 years to result from a sitting Emperor’s abdication, 
and in October 2019, we will welcome guests of honour 
from around the world who are coming to express their 
good wishes. Next June, Japan will host the Group of 
20  summit.  As  Chair  of  the  meeting,  I  intend  to  lead 
the  discussions  about  issues  facing  the  international 
community, including the state of the global economy 
and environmental issues. Soon after, in August, Japan 
will host the seventh meeting of the Tokyo International 
Conference on African Development. The Conference, 
which  Japan  has  hosted  diligently  since  1993,  has 
earned  the  unwavering  trust  of  national  leaders  all 
across  Africa.  At  the  Conference  we  will  discuss 
universal  health  coverage,  whose  importance  I  have 
highlighted a number of times. And lest we forget, next 
year  Japan  hosts  the  Rugby  World  Cup,  and  in  2020 
Tokyo is hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
Our eyes will continue to be fixed on the future.
When Japan and the Japanese people fix their gaze 
squarely  on  the  future,  Japan  increases  in  vitality. 
Japanese  citizens  focused  on  the  future  will  become 
people who are determined to take on the responsibility 
of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. The 
next generation of Japanese youth will be commendable 
flag bearers for the United Nations spirit. I am absolutely 
certain of that.
In conclusion, I want to say that in the light of the 
lack of progress in reforming the Security Council, the 
significance of the United Nations in the twenty-first-
century  world  is  already  being  severely  questioned. 
But that is precisely why Japan will never waver in its 
contributions to the Organization. I will end by pledging 
that Japan, alongside Secretary-General Guterres, will 
push forward with reform of both the Security Council 
and the United Nations as a whole.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Nikol Pashinyan, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Armenia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Armenia.
Mr.  Nikol  Pashinyan,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Armenia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nikol Pashinyan, Prime 
18-29775
43/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
Minister of the Republic of Armenia, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Pashinyan (Armenia): First of all, I would like 
to  congratulate  Her  Excellency  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We hope 
that  the  deliberations  under  her  able  leadership  will 
be fruitful.
It  is  a  great  honour  to  address  the  Assembly  as  a 
leader who has recently become the Prime Minister of 
Armenia  as  the  result  of  a  people’s  revolution  that  is 
now known as Armenia’s velvet revolution. I would like 
to take a moment to share the story of our victory over 
the  authoritarian  rule  that  preceded  that  revolution. 
The people of Armenia succeeded in bringing about an 
unforeseen  and  unprecedented  revolution,  which  took 
place without violence, victims or public disorder. That 
was  no  coincidence,  as  our  intention  was  to  make  a 
revolution based on love and solidarity. From the very 
beginning, we declared that we were ruling out violence 
of any kind. We declared that even if violence was used 
against  us,  we  would  not  respond  with  violence.  We 
declared  that  our  response  would  be  with  raised  and 
open hands, smiles and love.
When we started this political process there were just 
a few dozens of us marching from Gyumri, Armenia’s 
second-largest  city,  to  the  capital,  Yerevan.  When  we 
reached  Yerevan  and  showed  our  determination  and 
devotion  to  the  principle  of  non-violence,  our  entire 
nation  rose  up  against  the  ruling  regime  in  unity  and 
solidarity.  We  won  without  a  single  shot  being  fired 
and with no victims, through peaceful demonstrations 
alone.  We  succeeded  against  all  expectations.  Even 
well-known  experts  and  think  tanks  were  sceptical 
about our chances for victory. Against all odds, I was 
elected  Prime  Minister,  and  in  a  Parliament  where  I 
had only four reliable votes, including my own. Yet it 
was  possible.  It  happened  because  people  were  firm 
in their demands, and the Parliament, which had been 
elected just a year before, had no choice but to follow 
the people’s will.
While that Parliament continues to operate today, it 
no longer represents the people’s will, as it also failed 
to do before and during the revolution. Why? The short 
answer  is  that  the  elections  that  created  it  involved 
the buying of votes on a massive scale, the misuse of 
administrative resources, and oppression.
An  important  test  of  our  ability  to  hold  genuine 
free,  fair  and  competitive  elections  was  the  Yerevan 
city  council  election  that  took  place  just  before  my 
departure  for  New  York.  The  fact  that  for  the  first 
time  since  Armenia  became  independent,  all  of  the 
main parties congratulated the winning candidate and 
nobody  questioned  the  official  results  shows  that  a 
completely  new  political  culture  has  been  established 
in  Armenia.  In  the  same  spirit,  we  are  now  getting 
ready for snap parliamentary elections in our country. 
Free,  fair  and  transparent  elections  will  become  an 
irreversible  reality  in  Armenia  and  will  bring  strong 
and  vibrant  democratic 
that  function 
through  a  system  of  checks  and  balances.  Protecting 
our citizens’ rights and ensuring freedom of speech and 
other forms of expression and of assembly are very high 
on our Government’s agenda. From now on, there can 
be no possibility of manipulating the electoral process 
and undermining the people’s trust.
institutions 
I would also like to stress that the current situation 
in  Armenia  is  not  just  a  change  of  Government  or 
ruling  party.  It  represents  the  establishment  of  a  new 
political  and  governance  system,  which  we  have 
named “the people’s direct rule” or “the people’s direct 
governance”. In order to institutionalize the system, we 
intend to guarantee the expression of the people’s will 
not  only  through  elections  but  also  through  local  and 
national referendums, in order to engage our people in 
the decision-making process.
Having  been  a  political  prisoner  myself, 
I 
understand how much it means to be able to speak out 
and decide one’s own future. Now that we have assumed 
our responsibilities, our team has a clear vision and the 
strong  political  will  we  need  to  launch  fundamental 
reforms  aimed  at  eradicating  corruption,  creating 
transparent,  accountable  and  efficient  governance 
mechanisms, safeguarding human rights and the rule of 
law, ensuring an independent judiciary and advancing 
economic  growth  through  a  free  and  competitive 
business  environment  and  an  atmosphere  favourable 
to investment.
Despite  the  radical  transformation  in  our  internal 
political life, our foreign policy agenda will not involve 
any U-turns. The continuity of Armenia’s foreign policy 
shows  that  our  country  is  a  predictable  and  reliable 
partner. Our international commitments are not subject 
to revision. Our position is clear: Armenia stands ready 
to  have  constructive  dialogue  and  to  cooperate  with 
44/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
all partners. However, we do not intend to develop our 
relations with one partner at the expense of another.
the  global  and  regional 
We  underline  the  importance  of  the  role  of 
multilateralism  at 
level. 
Armenia’s  cooperation  under  the  umbrella  of  the 
United Nations is comprehensive and vibrant. Without 
going  into  minute  detail,  I  would  like  to  mention  our 
contributions  to  global  peace  through  the  United 
Nations-led and -supported peace operations, with their 
impressive  geographical  scope,  which  extends  from 
Afghanistan to Lebanon and from Kosovo to Mali. That 
has special significance for our country. While we are 
dealing with serious security concerns, we realize that 
the security of any one country is inextricably linked 
to  that  of  all  others  and  that  global  peace  requires 
concerted action.
We  are  a  truly  global  nation,  with  hundreds  of 
Armenian  communities  all  around  the  world,  which 
explains  Armenia’s  sensitivity  to  global  threats  that 
could  put  our  fellow  Armenians  at  risk  in  different 
parts of the world. The sizeable Armenian community 
in  Syria  is  facing  an  existential  threat  from  the 
ongoing  crisis  there.  Armenia  has  tried  to  contribute 
by  dispatching  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  most 
vulnerable  regions,  and  we  are  ready  to  enhance  our 
humanitarian  mission,  aimed  at  meeting  the  most 
pressing  needs  of  our  community  in  Syria.  As  a 
nation  that  has  experienced  the  horrors  of  genocide, 
Armenians have a great awareness of security concerns 
involving  their  compatriots  and  are  ready  to  do  their 
utmost to protect them.
The peaceful resolution of the Nagorno Karabakh 
conflict  continues  to  occupy  a  central  place  on  our 
foreign  policy  agenda.  The  status  and  security  of  the 
Republic of Artsakh is an absolute priority for Armenia 
in the negotiation process. Any attempt to resolve the 
conflict  through  military  means  represents  a  direct 
threat to regional security, democracy and human rights. 
Armenia will continue its constructive engagement in 
the peaceful resolution of the conflict within the format 
of the co-Chairs of the Minsk Group of the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which 
has the only internationally recognized mandate to deal 
with the conflict.
Azerbaijan should change its disrespectful attitude 
to  the  negotiations,  abandon  the  idea  of  any  military 
solution  and 
implement  all  previous  agreements. 
Furthermore,  if  Azerbaijan  is  truly  committed  to  the 
peace process, it should start talking to the main subject 
of the conflict, Nagorno Karabakh. Azerbaijan declares 
at  every  possible  occasion  that  Karabakh  should  be  a 
part of its territory, while at the same time announcing 
that it will not negotiate with Nagorno Karabakh. The 
question is how Azerbaijan can make a claim to Nagorno 
Karabakh without even speaking to it. Is that possible? 
It is possible only if the Azerbaijani Government wants 
the territory, but not the people in it. It therefore becomes 
obvious  that  the  Azerbaijani  leadership’s  intention 
is  to  cleanse  Armenians  from  Karabakh,  as  it  did  in 
Nakhchivan. That entitles Nagorno Karabakh to argue 
that if Karabakh were to become a part of Azerbaijan 
it would mean its total extermination. Karabakh must 
therefore  not  become  a  part  of  Azerbaijan  unless  we 
want to trigger a new Armenian genocide.
To  sum  up,  let  me  reiterate  that  the  conflict  can 
and should be settled only through mutual compromise 
on all sides, in an atmosphere conducive to peace, not 
war. Last but not least, I would also like to express my 
satisfaction to the Secretary-General for his unwavering 
support to the OSCE Minsk Group co-Chairs’ approach 
and the related efforts.
The topic of our deliberations, “Making the United 
Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and 
shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable  societies”,  shows  the  consistent  nature 
of  our  approach  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and the Sustainable Development Goals. 
The United Nations and its development agenda should 
indeed be relevant and accessible to all. No one should 
be left behind, as we keep repeating in our collective 
efforts. Earlier this year, in July, Armenia presented its 
first voluntary national report on the implementation of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  at  the  High-level 
Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development.  That 
important  exercise  coincided  with  a  decisive  political 
period  animated  by  vibrant  democratic  processes  and 
the launch of a wide range of reforms in my country. 
Armenia is committed to the creation and development 
of  a  knowledge-based,  innovative  platform  that  will 
leverage the impact and accelerate the implementation 
of the development agenda.
In that regard, we recognize the indispensable role 
of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, as 
well as the importance of cooperation in working with 
other  potential  partners.  As  a  newly  elected  member 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  a  candidate 
for  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  2020-2022 
18-29775
45/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
term,  Armenia  will  do  its  utmost  to  contribute  to  the 
realization of the Sustainable Development Goals and 
to  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms.
This  is  the  year  when  we  mark  the  seventieth 
anniversary of two of our most important human rights 
documents, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment 
of  the  Crime  of  Genocide.  Each  has  its  own  history, 
and each has become a cornerstone for the development 
of  international  law.  They  served  as  the  basis  on 
which  Armenia  launched  the  Global  Forum  against 
the  Crime  of  Genocide.  This  year  the  Global  Forum 
will  be  dedicated  to  issues  of  genocide  prevention 
through education, culture and museums. I encourage 
delegations  to  come  and  contribute  to  the  work  of 
the Forum.
(spoke in French)
the  International  Organization  of 
“Living together” is the theme of the seventeenth 
summit  of 
la 
Francophonie,  which  will  be  held  in  October  in 
Yerevan,  the  capital  of  Armenia,  a  city  that  is  some 
2,800  years  old.  It  is  a  great  honour  and  a  privilege 
for  Armenia  to  be  part  of  the  wider  French-speaking 
family  and  to  promote  tolerance  and  mutual  respect 
through cooperation in the areas of culture, education 
and innovation. I reiterate once again our invitation to 
delegations  to  attend  the  summit  of  La  Francophonie 
with several events planned within that framework.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Armenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Nikol Pashinyan, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Armenia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. M. Saad-Eddine El Othmani, 
Head of Government of the Kingdom of 
Morocco
Mr.  M.  Saad-Eddine  El  Othmani,  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  M.  Saad-Eddine  El 
Othmani,  Head  of  Government  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  El  Othmani  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  I  have  the  pleasure  of  congratulating 
Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on her election as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-third 
session. I wish her every success in her noble task.
I would also like to express my appreciation for the 
tireless efforts of Secretary-General António Guterres 
in  reforming  our  Organization,  strengthening  its  role 
and achieving its noble objectives. I reiterate Morocco’s 
full  support for  his  initiatives, especially in the areas 
of  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  modernizing 
the 
working mechanisms of the Organization and achieving 
sustainable development.
The world is facing various challenges and resulting 
transformations  that  require  us  to  adopt  innovative 
approaches in order to advance multilateralism, which 
is  suffering  a  real  crisis.  We  therefore  need  to  define 
consensus  concepts  in  addressing  global  issues  and 
making  international  organizations  effective  and  able 
to adapt to continuing transformation. Addressing and 
debating  this  reality  is  not  merely  an  intellectual  act 
but an explicit call to think realistically and objectively 
about the outcomes of the United Nations work with the 
aim of promoting its capabilities and realizing its goals.
In  this  context,  Morocco,  through  the  vision  of 
His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI,  believes  that  the 
development  of  multilateral  action  requires  particular 
attention  to  the  three  pillars  of  security,  development 
and  human  rights.  The  year  2018  has  furthered  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted in 
2015. It is also a year in which we recall two historic 
events  in  our  collective  undertaking  that  established 
the identity of the United Nations, devoted to shared, 
universal  human  values  and  entrenched  international 
peace and security.
The  first  historic  event  took  place  70  years  ago, 
when the United Nations deployed its first peacekeeping 
mission.  That  leads  us  to  recall  the  fundamental  role 
that the Organization plays in peacekeeping, based on 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  international  and  regional 
disputes, respect for the sovereignty of States and their 
territorial  integrity  and  independence.  At  the  sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly, His Majesty 
King  Mohamed  VI,  through  Prince  Moulay  Rachid, 
underscored from this rostrum that
“[a]chieving  international  peace  and  security 
remains the core historic mission entrusted to the 
United  Nations.  The  tens  of  thousands  of  United 
Nations peacekeepers serving throughout the world 
to protect civilians and working to bring about the 
46/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
right conditions for political dialogue between the 
concerned  parties  clearly  attest  to  the  vital  role 
played by our Organization in that regard.” (A/67/
PV.16, p. 10).
In  his  letter  addressed  to  the  Secretary-General 
early  this  month,  His  Majesty  also  underlined  the 
appreciation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  for  his 
initiative to organize a high-level meeting during this 
session  on  developing  the  work  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  Morocco  fully  supports  the 
final communiqué of the meeting.
The  second  historic  event  is  the  adoption  on 
10  December  1948  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  which 
we  will  celebrate  this  year.  The  Declaration  laid  the 
first  foundation  stone  for  universal  human  rights, 
leading  to  established  joint  universal  values  in  the 
area  of  human  rights.  It  also  served  as  an  incentive 
to  adopt  other  international  conventions  on  civil, 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights.  In  that 
regard, Morocco underscores its commitment to human 
rights  as  internationally  recognized.  We  call  once 
again  for  the  noble  principles  of  human  rights  to  be 
elements  of  convergence  among  nations,  without  any 
biased politicization.
Multilateral work that is based on balance, realism, 
effectiveness,  openness  and  ambition  is  among  the 
priorities  of  the  foreign  policy  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco,  as  established  by  King  Mohammed.  Now 
more  than  ever  we  need  to  work  together  to  identify 
consensus approaches based on humanity and solidarity 
in order to address shared challenges, particularly with 
respect to climate change, the fight against terrorism, 
and  migration.  It  is  in  this  spirit  that  His  Majesty 
has  launched  an  effort  to  mobilize  the  world  to  limit 
the  impact  of  climate  change.  He  made  the  United 
Nations Climate Change Conference held in Morocco 
a  historical  event  for  implementing  the  commitments 
undertaken at the Paris Climate Change Conference.
In  the  same  spirit,  Morocco  has  contributed  with 
resolve and firmness to international cooperation in the 
fight against terrorism and cross-border security threats. 
Given our recognized experience, we have contributed 
to  developing  international,  regional  and  national 
approaches  in  that  regard.  The  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
has continued its contribution to mobilize international 
efforts to combat terrorism, including through its joint 
presidency, together with the Netherlands, of the Global 
Counterterrorism Forum.
On the subject of migration, King Mohammed, as a 
pioneer in migration policies within the African Union, 
presented the African Agenda on Migration, which was 
adopted in Addis Ababa at the thirty-first summit of the 
African  Union,  in  January  2018.  At  the  international 
level,  Morocco,  together  with  Germany,  co-chairs 
the  Global  Forum  on  Migration.  The  outcomes  of 
these  international  and  African  events  have  helped 
to  strengthen  the  preparations  for  the  global  compact 
for migration.
In  the  past  few  months,  and  for  the  first  time  in 
history,  negotiations  have  resulted  in  an  international 
consensus  on  a  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and 
regular  migration,  which  will  be  adopted  at  a  high-
level meeting scheduled to take place in Marrakech, in 
Morocco, on 10 and 11 December. That meeting will be 
a  historically  transformative  moment  in  dealing  with 
migration. It will establish a new global order based on 
dialogue, consultation and cooperation, while positively 
addressing migration as a fundamental human dynamic 
in the development of societies, bringing civilizations 
closer  together  and  achieving  development.  Everyone 
is, of course, welcome in Marrakech.
Given  our  firmly  anchored  African  identity  and 
our  close  historic  and  human  ties  with  the  African 
countries,  Morocco  has  made  its  relations  with  the 
African continent one of the top priorities of its foreign 
policy, within a framework of integrated and proactive 
strategic vision. Morocco is proud of its African nature 
and of its distinctive relations with its African brothers. 
King Mohammed is eager to propose African solutions 
to every African problem on the international agenda 
in order to support African and international efforts to 
attain peace, development and good governance.
initiatives 
Morocco  supports  all 
to  achieve 
prosperity and stability on the African continent, which 
is why we are honoured to co-chair the Sustainability, 
Security and Stability initiative with Senegal, seeking 
to combat desertification in Africa by reclaiming arid 
lands  and  providing  stability  for  their  inhabitants, 
enabling them and their families to live a decent life. I 
would like to take this opportunity to call on the States 
Members of the United Nations to actively participate 
in the success of this important event related to Africa 
and its development.
18-29775
47/49
A/73/PV.7 
25/09/2018
Morocco  is  a  member  of  the  African  Peace 
and  Security  Council  and  intends  to  shoulder  its 
responsibility  for  mobilizing  every  effort  to  preserve 
security  and  peace  while  promoting  stability  on  the 
African continent, in support of United Nations efforts 
in this area.
The  dangers  facing  the  Middle  East  demand  that 
we  come  up  with  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the 
Palestinian question, which is at the heart of the conflicts 
in the region, along with its security and stability. The 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  calls  on  the  United  Nations  to 
focus its efforts on relaunching the political process on 
a basis of the relevant international and bilateral terms 
of  reference  so  that  the  Palestinian  people  can  enjoy 
their  legitimate  rights,  particularly  the  creation  of  an 
independent State across the entire Palestinian national 
territory, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
The Kingdom of Morocco is aware of the importance 
of  Jerusalem  to  the  three  monotheistic  religions  and 
the  whole  world.  I  emphasize  that  Morocco  rejects 
any change to the historic, legal and political status of 
the city of Jerusalem, in the light of the fact that King 
Mohammed presides over the Al-Quds Committee. We 
call for international efforts to maintain its status and 
protect it against any action targeting it.
threatens 
Another source of concern in the Middle East and 
North  Africa  is  the  interference  of  certain  regional 
Powers in the internal affairs of some Arab countries, 
including the Kingdom of Morocco, which undermines 
their  security  and  stability  and 
their 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  national  unity. 
Morocco  wants  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
its rejection and condemnation of such aggressive and 
destructive attitudes. We call on those Powers to refrain 
from this approach, which runs counter to international 
law,  international  relations  and  the  principle  of  good-
neighbourliness.  We  call  on  them  to  adopt  informed 
options  and  to  sincerely  and  courageously  participate 
in establishing a safe, stable and welcoming region.
The contrived regional dispute over Western Sahara 
remains a principal source of instability in the region 
and an obstacle to joint action and the integration of the 
Maghreb. That is why it is essential to work diligently 
to  find  a  lasting  political  solution  through  efforts  in 
which  Algeria,  if  it  is  serious,  should  be  effectively 
and directly involved, given its historical and political 
responsibility  for  creating,  fuelling  and  prolonging 
the dispute.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  underlines  its  full 
commitment to the terms of reference adopted by the 
Security Council to address this contrived dispute. The 
Council  is  the  only  international  body  mandated  to 
address the political aspect of the dispute, by adopting 
a spirit of realism and consensus and working to reach 
a  realistic,  practical  and  lasting  solution,  as  provided 
for in the Council’s resolutions, particularly resolution 
2414  (2018).  In  that  regard,  Morocco  underscores  its 
support for the efforts of the Secretary-General and his 
Personal Envoy for Western Sahara, aimed at achieving 
a  final  and  agreed  political  solution  to  this  dispute, 
based  on  the  position  expressed  by  King  Mohammed 
in  his  address  on  the  sixty-fifth  anniversary  of  the 
Revolution of the King and the People, on 20 August. 
His Majesty stressed that Morocco will continue to
“engage  with  full  trust  and  commitment  in  the 
dynamic work generated by the Secretary-General 
and his Personal Envoy, based on the same terms 
of  reference  that  we  identified  in  the  last  Green 
March  address.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the 
growing harmony between these principles and the 
international positions”.
In parallel, Morocco continues to make every effort 
to  promote  the  development  model  in  the  southern 
Sahara. We support an advanced, decentralized system 
that  would  enable  the  inhabitants  of  the  Moroccan 
Sahara to manage their own affairs in an environment 
of democracy, stability and sustainable development.
It is with deep regret that we recall the disastrous 
situation  in  which  our  detained  brothers  are  living 
in  the  camps  at  Tindouf.  We  reiterate  our  firm  and 
non-negotiable demand for the international community 
to compel Algeria to assume all its political, legal and 
humanitarian  responsibilities  as  the  host  country.  It 
should  allow  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  to  carry  out  its  mandate 
by  conducting  a  census  of  those  people,  on  the  basis 
of Security Council resolutions and in response to the 
numerous appeals made by the Secretary General and 
various humanitarian bodies over the years.
We  firmly  believe  that  the  major  changes  and 
transformations  in  our  world  today  require  urgent, 
strong and concerted efforts on the part of all members 
of the international community, whoever they are and 
regardless of their interests. Multilateralism is contrary 
to isolation and to perpetuating the status quo. It is a 
symbol of progress, understanding and adaptation. The 
48/49 
18-29775
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.7
multilateral system, despite the criticism it faces, will 
remain essential to addressing the challenges and issues 
facing the international community.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  will  continue  to  be  an 
active  and  responsible  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  international  community.  The  Kingdom  of 
Morocco  will  continue  to  believe  in  the  principles  of 
the Organization, in which we have confidence, thanks 
to its multilateral work.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of  Government 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  M.  Saad-Eddine  El  Othmani,  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 9.10 p.m.
18-29775
49/49
