United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
57th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 18 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Commemorative meeting on the occasion of 
the seventieth anniversary of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and of the twenty-
fifth anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and 
Programme of Action
Agenda item 74 (continued)
Promotion and protection of human rights
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative 
approaches for improving the effective 
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First,  I  would 
like to thank the delegation of Cuba, which, on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, facilitated 
the resolution that led to the convening this meeting.
At this meeting, we are commemorating 70 years of 
one of the most important contributions of the General 
Assembly to humankind: the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, which is a jewel of multilateralism and 
proof beyond dispute of the impact of our work on the 
peoples of the world and on the life of each and every 
person. That historical document has been the legacy of 
a generation which, after suffering the tragedies of two 
world wars, understood that, for everyone: “recognition 
of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable 
rights  of  all  members  of  the  human  family  is  the 
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world”.
I wish to emphasize the role of Eleanor Roosevelt, 
Hansa Mehta, Minerva Bernardino and so many other 
visionary women in the creation of a more inclusive and 
egalitarian Declaration, which has been an inspiration 
for the struggles of millions of women around the world: 
indigenous  women,  Afro-descendant  women,  women 
with disabilities and women of diverse backgrounds.
Today,  we  recall  an  extraordinary  achievement 
which, despite the passage of time, continues to be the 
strongest foundation for the promotion and defence of 
human  rights,  and  we  pay  tribute  to  the  persons  who 
made  such  significant  contributions  to  make  human 
dignity the basis of our coexistence in the world.
This  is  also  an  opportunity  to  celebrate  25  years 
of  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action, 
which  clearly  established  the  universal,  indivisible, 
interdependent and interrelated nature of human rights 
and which also created the Office of the United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  currently 
led  by  an  extraordinary  Latin  American  woman, 
Michelle Bachelet.
Allow me to make three remarks.
First,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
not  only  reflects  the  collective  aspiration  to  establish 
a world order based on human dignity but has actually 
transformed the world. It has made it much better. Its 
30 articles contain universal ideals and commitments, 
such  as  the  rights  to  life,  freedom  and  justice  and  to 
education, health, housing, food and work, which have 
inspired  almost  every  international  instrument  since 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-44573 (E)
*1844573*

A/73/PV.57 
18/12/2018
and  enabled  the  development  of  the  nine  core  human 
rights treaties and their optional protocols.
The  Declaration  has  also  made  an  impression  on 
the  history  of  our  countries.  Its  precepts  have  been 
gradually  included  in  national  legal  systems,  thus 
ensuring  implementation  mechanisms.  Today,  respect 
for human rights is an essential element of every system 
of  Government  and  of  the  achievement  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. Indeed, today we 
could even say that the Sustainable Development Goals 
are goals that aim to fully guarantee human rights.
Secondly, we must avoid setbacks in the agreements 
that we have already established and we must avoid the 
politicization  of  human  rights.  In  times  of  crisis  and 
instability,  in  which  the  international  system  that  we 
have worked so hard to build faces so many challenges, 
we  are  compelled  more  than  ever  before  to  abide  by 
the  principles  of  the  Universal  Declaration.  If  we  do 
not  make  it  a  reality,  if  we  allow  human  rights  to  be 
restricted or undermined, humankind could once again 
face fear, division and, inevitably, conflict — the same 
spectres that we sought to banish 70 years ago.
Human 
rights  are 
for  everyone.  Selective 
interpretations  or  those  that  undermine  their  validity 
in  accordance  with  geopolitical  or  economic  interests 
set the stage for the weakening of those rights and the 
perception  that  not  all  violations  or  abuses  matter  or 
that the fight for justice and freedom is not the same for 
all peoples.
Thirdly,  the  fight  for  human  rights  is  ongoing.  It 
must be a part of our daily efforts. I decided to distribute 
a  special  edition  of  the  Universal  Declaration  so  that 
we always have it at our side during our deliberations. 
We  still  have  a  lot  to  do.  There  are  still  millions  of 
human beings who are not free or equal and have not 
been  liberated  from  fear  and  misery.  Poverty,  hunger 
and  inequality  continue  to  affect  all  countries  and 
regions. Torture and modern slavery have not yet been 
eradicated.  Racism,  discrimination  and  exclusion  are 
still  part  of  our  reality  and  the  rights  of  women  and 
girls are still being violated systematically.
The Universal Declaration must continue to guide 
our  efforts  to  build  a  more  peaceful,  egalitarian  and 
humane  world.  Fortunately, 
the  Global  Compact 
for  Safe,  Orderly  and  Regular  Migration,  which 
the  General  Assembly  will  endorse  tomorrow,  is 
proof  that  the  majority  of  Member  States  maintain 
than 
that  commitment.  And  what  better  day 
today — 18 December — International Migrants Day, 
to  reaffirm  that,  regardless  of  their  migration  status, 
migrants cannot be deprived of the fundamental rights 
that the Universal Declaration grants them.
The international community cannot forget the road 
that it has travelled to reach the Universal Declaration. 
One  of  the  sentences  in  its  preamble  tells  us  to  bear 
in mind that “disregard and contempt for human rights 
have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the 
conscience of mankind.”
More  than  ever,  multilateralism  needs  to  go  back 
to  its  roots,  to  be  nourished  by  the  aspirations  and 
ideals of the men and women who, in overcoming their 
differences, worked to provide future generations with 
a legacy of hope — the hope of creating a world in which 
wars can be averted and the value of life is respected 
above any other material or geopolitical consideration.
Let  us  renew  our  commitment  to  the  Universal 
Declaration. That is the best tribute that we can pay to 
it. Let us prove that the ideal of greater justice, equality 
and  freedom  is  not  a  utopia,  that  human  beings  are 
capable of coexisting in peace and that the Declaration is 
as valid today as it was in 1948 when it was proclaimed.
I now give the floor to His Excellency Secretary-
General António Guterres.
The Secretary-General: Seventy years ago, after 
the Holocaust and the horror of the Second World War, 
our visionary forebears drafted 30 articles that lay out 
what  they  described  as  the  “foundation  of  freedom, 
justice  and  peace  in  the  world”.  The  adoption  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights marked the first 
time that countries had ever come together to recognize 
that all people, everywhere, are born free and equal and 
share  fundamental,  inalienable  rights.  The  economic, 
social, cultural, civil and political rights enshrined in 
this document belong to everyone.
Wherever  we  live,  whatever  our  circumstances 
or place in society, our race, colour, gender or sexual 
orientation, language, religion, opinion, nationality or 
economic status, we are all equal in human rights and in 
dignity. No one ever loses their human rights, no matter 
what they do or who they are. The clarity and profundity 
with which the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
speaks  to  the  aspirations  of  people  everywhere  have 
made it the world’s most widely translated document. 
Our challenge remains to translate it into reality for all 
people everywhere.
2/12 
18-44573
18/12/2018 
A/73/PV.57
The  Universal  Declaration  is  much  more  than  a 
source of inspiration and a statement of principles. Its 
30 articles constitute practical measures for advancing 
peace and inclusive development beyond human rights. 
Over seven decades, it has enabled women and men in 
all regions to claim their rights and contest the forces of 
oppression, exploitation, discrimination and injustice.
In that time, people around the world have gained 
progressively greater freedoms and equality. Conditions 
of profound economic misery and exploitation have been 
improved.  Women’s  rights  have  advanced,  along  with 
the  rights  of  children,  victims  of  racial  and  religious 
discrimination,  indigenous  peoples  and  persons  with 
disabilities. And perpetrators of horrific human rights 
violations have been held to account for their crimes by 
international tribunals.
Yet, seven decades on, there is still a long way to 
go.  Women,  men  and  children  all  over  the  world  still 
endure constraints on — or even total denial of — their 
human rights. Torture, extrajudicial killings, detention 
without trial and other egregious human rights violations 
persist. Untold numbers of women and girls face daily 
insecurity, violence and discrimination. Today we are 
seeing  a  rising  tide  of  authoritarianism,  intolerance, 
xenophobia  and  racism.  It  is  only  by  respecting  and 
promoting human rights that we can achieve the goals 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  to 
create  sustainable,  diverse,  inclusive  and  peaceful 
societies thriving on a healthy planet.
I understand the importance of human rights from 
my personal experience. I grew up under a dictatorship 
and  worked  in  the  slums  of  Lisbon,  and  later  in  my 
career saw the bitter results of human rights abuses as 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees.  As 
Secretary-General, I wish to highlight that our founding 
Charter makes human rights part of this Organization’s 
very identity. Human rights are an intrinsic part of all 
that we do and all that we are.
Human  rights  inspire.  Human  rights  transform. 
Human rights drive progress and change the course of 
history. As the custodians of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  the    continued  commitment  of 
Member States to the rights it enshrines is critical. Let 
us  keep  the  beacon  of  this  towering  document  alight 
so it can continue to guide us all on the path of peace, 
dignity, security and opportunity for all.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his statement.
Before proceeding further, I would like to consult 
members, as mentioned in my letter dated 13 December 
2018, on inviting Ms. Michelle Bachelet, United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights, to address the 
Assembly.
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly,  without  setting  a 
precedent, to invite the High Commissioner to make a 
statement at this meeting?
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  accordance 
with the decision just taken, I now call on the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to make 
a statement.
Ms. Bachelet (United Nations High Commissioner 
for Human Rights): Seventy years ago, when the third 
session of the General Assembly adopted the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights as resolution 217 A (III) 
(see  A/PV.183),  the  world’s  States  were  beginning  to 
emerge  from  catastrophe.  Genocide,  on  a  scale  never 
before  experienced  by  humankind,  had 
inflicted 
monstrous  suffering.  Nationalistic  and  isolationist 
policies had generated two global wars and an economic 
depression  whose  reach  and  scope  harmed  millions 
of  people  across  the  planet.  The  depredations  of 
colonialism had oppressed and exploited entire nations 
and  regions  and  the  use  of  atomic  weapons  made  it 
clear  that  any  future  global  conflict  could  essentially 
extinguish life on this planet as we had known it since 
the dawn of time.
The  first  impulse  to  create  the  Human  Rights 
Declaration  came  from  Latin  America.  China,  Costa 
Rica, Ghana, India, Jamaica, Lebanon, Liberia, Pakistan 
and  the  Philippines  insisted  on  strong  commitments 
against  torture,  for  the  rights  of  women  and  on 
justice, dignity and conscience. Together, States from 
every  region  drafted  the  30  articles  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and agreed that , as the 
Secretary-General just recalled, they must stand as “a 
common standard of achievement for all peoples and all 
nations” —  so  that  by  progressive  measures,  national 
and  international,  Member  States  would  build  the 
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.
Today, that vow still stands. The recognition that the 
world’s  peoples  possess  those  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms cannot be extinguished. The acknowledgment 
that  upholding  all  people’s  human  rights  is  the  only 
18-44573
3/12
A/73/PV.57 
18/12/2018
possible path to peace and inclusive development is as 
powerful  and  valid  today  as  it  was  70  years  ago  and 
the achievements inspired by the Universal Declaration 
cannot be denied.
Millions of women and men have come together to 
demand an end to tyranny and injustice and insist on 
their  rights  to  justice  and  freedom  from  exploitation, 
discrimination  and  violence.  Today’s  attacks  on  the 
fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  Universal 
Declaration are not motivated by its failure. They stem 
from  its  success,  because  human  rights  stand  against 
exploitation  of  the  many  by  the  few.  They  require 
governance and institutions that serve the people, not 
the narrow interests of powerful individuals.
This Assembly represents the hopes and the interests 
of all the people of all Member States. Its bedrock is the 
determination to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge  of  war;  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human 
rights, the dignity and worth of the human person and 
the equal rights of men and women and of nations, large 
and small; establish conditions under which justice and 
respect  for  international  law  can  be  maintained;  and 
promote social progress and better standards of life in 
larger freedom.
The  anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  is  an  important  reminder  of  why 
the  United  Nations  and  this  Assembly  came  to  be 
and  the  purpose  they  must  serve  today.  Its  guidance 
echoes across the 70 years to the many crises that we 
see  building  in  our  era.  The  Declaration’s  30  articles 
guide us to measures that resolve violence and global 
destruction, repair social breakdown and mark the path 
away from conflict towards shared, peaceful solutions. 
They build, inseparably, on each other.
The rights to participate in decisions, speak freely 
and seek justice are important in and of themselves and 
also contribute to the rights to health, life, education and 
development. Fostering truly inclusive and sustainable 
economies  requires  the  participation  of  everyone,  an 
end to discrimination and the right to speak out, make 
choices  and  criticize.  The  provision  of  governance 
that serves rather than silences and economic systems 
rooted in dignity are the responsibility of every leader. 
They underpin the legitimacy of Government and the 
sovereignty of States.
I  ask  members  of  the  Assembly  to  work  towards 
that vision of peace and justice for all peoples.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I thank the High 
Commissioner for Human Rights for her statement and 
I appreciate her presence at this commemorative event.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Namibia,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States.
Mr.  Gertze  (Namibia):  I  thank  the  Secretary-
General and the High Commissioner for their statements 
this  morning  and  I  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for 
organizing  this  anniversary  celebration  today.  I  take 
the floor on behalf of the Group of African States and 
would like to thank you, Madam President, for bringing 
us  all  together  here  today  to  mark  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights.  We  consider  the  Universal  Declaration  as  the 
most  important  landmark  document  on  human  rights. 
The African Group upholds the tenets of the Declaration 
and recognizes the historic effects the Declaration had 
on many of our countries.
I  say  that  as  a  reminder  that  when  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  was  adopted  on 
10  December  1948,  only  four  African  countries  were 
States Members of the United Nations and had a seat at 
the table. At that time, most of us were absent because we 
were still under the yoke of colonialism. The adoption 
of the Declaration came as a beacon of hope for us as 
it set out human rights and fundamental freedoms that 
should be inherent for every human being. That spoke 
directly to our plight and the reality of the times.
The  first  article  of  this  important  document  sets 
out that “All human beings are born free and equal in 
dignity  and  rights”.  For  many  liberation  movements 
across  the  continent,  that  and  the  following  articles 
added  impetus  to  our  struggles  for  freedom  and 
independence and amplified the case against injustice 
and  colonial  subjugation.  Therefore,  for  the  African 
Group,  the  historical  setting  of  the  Declaration’s 
adoption also serves as a reminder of how far we have 
come as nations in the fight for the full respect of all 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  We  have 
come  to  embrace  the  Declaration  wholeheartedly  and 
recognize  that,  by  protecting  all  the  rights  enshrined 
therein,  we  are  laying  the  foundation  for  freedom, 
justice and peace in the world.
We recall the dynamic and inspirational leadership 
of  the  Chair  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  drafting  committee,  Mrs.  Eleanor  Roosevelt, 
who was later referred to by President Harry Truman 
4/12 
18-44573
18/12/2018 
A/73/PV.57
as the First Lady of the World, in tribute to her human 
rights  achievements.  We  salute  her  for  her  strong 
conviction  that  the  Declaration  would  have  the  same 
kind of influence on global society as the Declaration 
of Independence had on the citizens of her own country.
The African Group takes pride in the progress that 
we have made in advancing human rights in our various 
countries.  As  members  of  the  African  Union  and  our 
own  subregional  organizations,  many  African  Group 
member States have adopted further instruments for the 
protection and promotion of human rights. Through the 
African  Union,  African  member  States  have  adopted 
the  1969  Organization  of  African  Unity  Convention 
Governing  the  Specific  Aspects  of  Refugee  Problems 
in  Africa,  the  1981  African  Charter  on  Human  and 
Peoples’  Rights  and  its  2003  Protocol  on  the  Rights 
of Women in Africa, the 1990 African Charter on the 
Rights and Welfare of the Child and the 2009 African 
Union Convention for the Protection and Assistance of 
Internally Displaced Persons in Africa.
therein.  From 
Some of the aforementioned documents, including 
the  African  Charter  on  Human  and  Peoples’  Rights, 
make  direct  reference  to  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  having  expanded  the  scope  of  human 
rights  provided  for 
the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  to  the  Economic 
Community of Central African States and the Southern 
African Development Community, the African member 
States have demonstrated their willingness to improve 
human rights for their people by adopting specific and 
direct  treaties,  declarations  and  guidelines  to  address 
specific  concerns,  such  as  children’s  rights,  women’s 
rights,  the  rights  of  migrants  and  refugees  and  many 
other new and emerging concerns.
A number of institutions have also been set up to 
facilitate the effective implementation of the instruments 
mentioned  above,  including  the  African  Commission 
on Human and Peoples’ Rights, the African Court on 
Human and Peoples’ Rights and the African Committee 
of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. Those 
institutions  have  made  a  tremendous  contribution  to 
the advancement of human rights on the continent. If 
they are resourced sufficiently, their impact will be felt 
across the continent, especially where it matters most, 
among those furthest left behind. As we commemorate 
the seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, as a common standard of achievement, 
it is incumbent upon the entire community of nations 
to  guard  against  the  threats  posed  to  human  rights, 
including  xenophobia,  racism,  trafficking  in  persons, 
attacks  against  migrants  and  other  pressing  threats 
to the well-being of our planet and the citizens of the 
world, as a mark of its recommitment to the ideals and 
values of the Declaration.
remains  committed 
The  African  Group 
to 
upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
in order to realize a more peaceful, just and equitable 
world. For us that is what defines humanity in the true 
spirit of ubuntu, whereby the welfare and well-being of 
my neighbour translates into the welfare and well-being 
of us all as a community of nations.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of Tajikistan, who will speak 
on behalf of the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
Mr. Mahmadaminov (Tajikistan): It is my honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  States 
members  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States.  We 
extend our appreciation to you, Madam President, for 
convening  this  General  Assembly  plenary  meeting 
today  to  commemorate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and of the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and 
Programme of Action.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
adopted in 1948, is the guiding document for promoting 
and  protecting  human  rights  for  all.  The  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  was  forged  in  the 
aftermath of the Second World War and born out of the 
universal  rejection  of  violence,  whereby,  as  stated  in 
its preamble:
“recognition  of  the  inherent  dignity  and  of  the 
equal and inalienable rights of all members of the 
human family is the foundation of freedom, justice 
and peace in the world”.
Throughout much of history, people have acquired 
rights  and  responsibilities  through  their  membership 
in  a  group,  family,  religion,  class  or  community,  and 
the  Universal  Declaration  has  become  the  universal 
embodiment of the rights to life, freedom of expression, 
liberty, equality, food, shelter and, most importantly, a 
dignified life. As Governments committed themselves 
to  establishing  the  United  Nations,  calls  came  from 
across the globe to protect citizens from human rights 
abuses  and  violations.  Those  voices  played  a  critical 
role  in  drafting  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
18-44573
5/12
A/73/PV.57 
18/12/2018
which recognizes the protection of human rights as one 
of the purposes of the United Nations.
The  Universal  Declaration  embodies  economic, 
social and cultural rights, as well as civil and political 
rights,  based  on  the  premise  that  different  rights  can 
be successfully achieved only in conjunction with one 
another. That indivisibility and interdependence of all 
human  rights  was  reconfirmed  by  the  1993  Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action. Both documents 
demonstrate  the  common  aspirations  and  collective 
will of the international community to make the world 
a better place. They have promoted a common standard 
of human rights and laid the foundations for a more just 
and secure world.
Today,  while  a  very  comprehensive  normative 
framework  of  human  rights  treaties  and  covenants 
has evolved together with an elaborate architecture of 
mechanisms  to  support  that  work  at  the  international 
level,  there  is  growing  concern  about  the  multiple 
challenges posed to the spirit of multilateralism. We must 
ensure a safe working environment for persons engaged 
in the promotion and the protection of human rights and 
also facilitate their legitimate activities. Reprisals and 
intimidation  of  any  kind,  including  for  cooperating 
with the United Nations and its mechanisms in the area 
of human rights, must be effectively addressed.
In that endeavour, we must bear in mind that the rule 
of law applies equally to all. Abiding by those principles 
will  help  maintain  the  objectivity  and  neutrality  of 
those  engaged  in  the  promotion  and  the  protection  of 
human rights and enable them to constructively engage 
with  all  concerned.  We  should  not  allow  the  serious 
issue of human rights protection to be politicized and 
challenges at all levels should be addressed in the spirit 
of cooperation and genuine dialogue.
For  the  success  of  our  collective  and  common 
cause  of  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights,  we 
emphasize  that  the  international  human  rights  system 
should  focus  on  achieving  the  desired  results  from  a 
more inclusive, participatory and positive approach of 
dialogue and capacity-building. The values ingrained in 
the Universal Declaration and Vienna Declaration will 
continue to enlighten our path as we strive to achieve a 
fair human rights system.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
are  two  pillars  of  global  human  rights  today.  Those 
two  documents  codify  the  important  messages  and 
understanding of the past and provide a framework for 
us to respond to emerging challenges. Most importantly, 
those  two  projects  enshrine  our  commitment  to  find 
global  solutions  to  common  challenges  that  hinder 
the  progress  of  humankind.  We  should  aspire  to  the 
realization  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of 
Action and continue to work towards achieving a better 
world free of violence for us and future generations.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of Lithuania, who will speak 
on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States.
Ms.  Plepytė  (Lithuania):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the States members 
of the Group of Eastern European States.
As  we  commemorate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  we 
reminisce  and  reflect.  As  a  result  of  the  enormous 
suffering of people in the Second World War and their 
struggle for peace, the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights was adopted in 1948 and marked the first step 
in the long journey ahead to bring humankind together 
in response to the atrocities of the greatest tragedy in 
its history and to build a new world, with human rights 
at  its  heart.  Armed  with  the  joint  commitment  to  the 
principles  set  out  in  that  fundamental  document,  we, 
the international community, helped lift up the dignity 
of many and prevented inestimable human suffering.
The Universal Declaration has become a cornerstone 
of  international  human  rights  law  upon  which  many 
States have since built a solid and robust human rights 
architecture. That remarkable instrument spells out in 
merely 30 articles the rights and duties that we owe one 
another by virtue of our humanity and provides us with 
a  set  of  measures  to  end  extreme  poverty  and  create 
opportunities  for  every  human  being.  It  also  gives  us 
the  courage  of  our  convictions,  in  that  everyone  can 
make a difference so that all may live the promise of the 
Universal Declaration — a life of dignity and respect.
With the end of the Cold War, a revived international 
consciousness  and  cultural  confluence  inspired  yet 
another momentous step forward through the adoption 
of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. Its 
fundamental description of human rights as “universal, 
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated” cut through 
the division of civil and political rights from rights that 
are  cultural,  economic  and  social.  The  first  words  of 
the  preamble  of  the  Vienna  Declaration  manifested 
6/12 
18-44573
18/12/2018 
A/73/PV.57
a  great  hopefulness  for  a  new  era,  with  inter-reliant 
States engaging in a shared approach to the causes of 
human suffering “[c]onsidering that the promotion and 
protection of human rights is a matter of priority for the 
international community.”
As  we  reflect  upon  the  seven  decades  that  have 
passed,  we  realize  that  the  promises  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and those of the Vienna 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  have  yet  to  be 
fulfilled.  Yet,  the  very  fact  that  they  have  stood  this 
striking  test  of  time  is  a  testament  to  the  enduring 
universality of their perennial ideals of equality, justice 
and human dignity.
This  anniversary  is  an  opportune  moment  to 
evaluate the overall societal impact that human rights 
have  had  throughout  the  years.  Yet  the  meaning  of 
these documents for the people and their everyday lives 
is  what  counts  most.  That  is  why  we  must  promote 
understanding  of  how  the  Universal  Declaration  and 
the  Vienna  Declaration  continuously  empower  us  and 
inspire our deeper reflection on the ways in which we 
can  stand  up  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  in 
addressing existing challenges.
This  anniversary  is  a  stark  reminder  that  while 
reflecting  on  achievements  as  a  source  for  hope  and 
optimism,  we  cannot  take  human  rights  for  granted. 
We are acutely aware of the current struggles of people 
for  the  full  enjoyment  of  their  human  rights  taking 
place across the globe today. Human rights violations 
and suppressions can and must be addressed, violence 
prevented and peace sustained.
This  anniversary  is  a  chance  for  the  world  to 
celebrate  the  gift  of  the  Universal  Declaration  and 
the  Vienna  Declaration  and  to  reaffirm  the  enduring 
human  rights  principles  and  standards  they  have 
helped  establish.  It  is  also  time  to  stand  up  for  what 
the Universal Declaration and the Vienna Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  truly  represent.  We  need 
to  secure  our  achievements  and  the  advances  made 
and use this occasion to mobilize as the international 
community 
to  defend  human  rights 
with  fierce  commitment.  We  need  to  reaffirm  the 
fundamental significance of human rights for our lives 
and those of future generations, finding our strength in 
the moral language of the Universal Declaration.
to  continue 
Perhaps  the  most  far-reaching  re-reading  of  these 
momentous documents today concerns its emphasis on 
the duties that we hold towards each other, as opposed 
to the rights we claim against each other. That is why 
we hope that the documents adopted with a particular 
era’s  problems  in  mind  will  not  only  preserve  their 
universal  authority  as  future  points  of  reference  for 
international human rights law but also endure as the 
most  comprehensive  statements  of  inalienable  human 
rights. We have a long way to go.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of the Plurinational State of 
Bolivia, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Latin 
American and Caribbean States.
Mrs. Cordova Soria (Plurinational State of Bolivia): 
I  have  the  honour  to  deliver  these  remarks  on  behalf 
of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States 
(GRULAC)  at  this  plenary  meeting  to  commemorate 
the seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.
After the devastation of war, the historic adoption 
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  on 
10 December 1948 marked the first time that countries 
in the world had come together to recognize that every 
human  being,  everywhere,  shares  fundamental  and 
inalienable  rights.  In  a  similar  way,  the  adoption  of 
the  Vienna  Declaration  on  25  June  1993  reaffirmed 
the commitment of all States to fulfil their obligations 
to  promote  the  universal  respect  of  all  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all,  highlighting  that 
international  cooperation  on  this  matter  is  essential 
for  the  full  achievement  of  the  purposes  of  our 
United Nations.
The  Universal  Declaration  has  allowed  people  all 
over the world to demand their rights and fight against 
all  forms  of  oppression,  exploitation,  discrimination 
and injustice. It provides us with the basis for ensuring 
equal rights for everyone, “without distinction of any 
kind,  such  as  race,  colour,  sex,  language,  religion, 
political  or  other  opinion,  national  or  social  origin, 
property, birth or other status” and the pursuit of peace, 
security and sustainable development for all humanity. 
In  that  regard,  we  would  also  like  to  recognize  the 
importance of the civil, political, economic, social and 
cultural rights that are indispensable for the dignity and 
personal development of all.
There is no doubt that we have come a long way, 
but we still have much more to achieve in the field of 
human rights and there is much more to do to overcome 
the  current  challenges  in  the  world  when  universal 
18-44573
7/12
A/73/PV.57 
18/12/2018
values are being eroded. We must face those challenges 
together by strengthening the multilateral system on the 
basis of mutual understanding, dialogue, transparency 
and  confidence-building,  promoting 
international 
cooperation and respecting the sovereignty, territorial 
integrity and political independence of States.
In  commemoration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  the 
countries  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  would 
like  to  reaffirm  that  all  human  rights  are  universal, 
indivisible,  interrelated,  interdependent  and  mutually 
reinforcing, and that all human rights must be treated 
in  a  fair  and  equal  manner,  on  the  same  footing  and 
with  the  same  emphasis.  We  emphasize  the  need  for 
the promotion and protection of all human rights to be 
guided  by  the  principles  of  impartiality,  objectivity, 
non-selectivity  and  non-politicization  in  the  spirit 
of  constructive 
international  dialogue,  solidarity 
and cooperation.
To  that  end,  we  would  like  to  assure  the  full 
cooperation and commitment of every State member of 
GRULAC with the United Nations system in achieving 
the effective enjoyment of all human rights for everyone 
around the world.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of the Netherlands, who will 
speak on behalf of the Group of Western European and 
other States.
Mrs. Gregoire Van Haaren (Netherlands): I have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of Western European and other States.
As  we  commemorate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Vienna  Declaration 
and Programme of Action, we should take a moment to 
reflect, for those two documents are as relevant today 
as  they  were  on  the  days  they  were  signed.  Since  the 
signing of the Universal Declaration 70 years ago, the 
world has undeniably moved in a promising direction. 
More and more people see their human rights codified 
into national laws and protected by functioning justice 
systems.  That,  in  turn,  has  led  to  more  freedom, 
equality and prosperity. The Universal Declaration has 
played an instrumental role in the progress made. It has 
repeatedly served as a source of inspiration for national 
constitutions,  as  well  as  for  other  international  and 
regional human rights conventions, including forming 
the  foundation  for  18  treaties  and  optional  protocols 
advancing human rights globally.
But  we,  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  have 
also failed many of our fellow human beings — many 
who would doubt if they really were born free and equal 
in dignity and rights and many who continuously face 
violations or abuses of their human rights, often at the 
hands  of  the  very  Governments  whose  responsibility 
it  is  to  protect  and  promote  such  rights.  Although  we 
have  failed  them,  we  should  learn  the  lessons  of  our 
failure and do better. Three of those lessons stand out 
and deserve specific attention.
First,  we  must  recognize  the  crucial  role  of  civil 
society,  including  through  a  free  press,  in  holding 
Governments  accountable  with  regard  to  respecting, 
protecting  and  fulfilling  human  rights.  Human  rights 
defenders worldwide deserve our unwavering support, 
especially when they become the target of repression.
Secondly,  we  have  learned  the  importance  of 
strong international human rights institutions. They are 
needed to further intergovernmental dialogue, mutual 
understanding  and  the  improvement  of  normative 
frameworks  and,  where  such  institutions  are  not 
delivering as expected, we should all strive to improve 
and strengthen them.
Lastly,  we  need  to  do  a  better  job  of  preventing 
conflicts and mass atrocities and preventing inequality 
and  poverty.  Respect  for  human  rights  in  itself  will 
serve as a preventive tool to avoid such injustice, while, 
conversely,  human  rights  violations  and  abuses  can 
and should be used as the proverbial canary in a coal 
mine  —  as  a  warning  before  situations  spiral  out  of 
control that should lead to early action.
We can only truly learn those lessons through the 
inclusion of all, without discrimination on any grounds. 
In that connection, I would like to briefly pay tribute 
to all the women who have made crucial contributions 
to gender equality and human rights achievements over 
the  past  70  years,  starting  with  Eleanor  Roosevelt, 
who  chaired  the  drafting  committee of  the  Universal 
Declaration; Hansa Mehta, who, highlighting the need 
for gender equality, ensured the use of the term human 
beings  instead  of  men  in  article  1  of  the  Declaration; 
Marie-Hélène Lefaucheux, who managed to include the 
notion  of  non-discrimination  based  on  sex  in  article 
2;  all  the  way  to  brave  women  today  such  as  Malala 
Yousafzai  and  Nadia  Murad,  both  winners  of  the 
8/12 
18-44573
18/12/2018 
A/73/PV.57
Nobel Peace Prize. Women represent half of the world 
population and they should be equally represented.
In conclusion, let us renew our commitment to the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action. Let us look back 
with pride on our achievements and with humility on 
our failures. In the words of Eleanor Roosevelt,
“we face the future fortified with lessons we have 
learned  from  the  past.  It  is  today  that  we  must 
create the world of the future.”
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor  to  the  representative  of  the  Bahamas,  who  will 
speak on behalf of the Caribbean Community.
Ms. Carey (Bahamas): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  at  this  General  Assembly 
plenary  meeting  on  the  momentous  occasion  of  the 
commemoration  of 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action,  in  accordance  with  resolution 
72/169.
Seventy  years  ago,  on  10  December  1948,  the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  ratified  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  The  intent 
of  its  drafters  —  those  brave  eight  men  and  one 
woman  —  was  to  create  a  document  that  would 
elaborate  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  all 
during  a  time  when  the  dignity  of  humankind  was 
threatened.  Being  the  first  formalized  document  to 
outline  human  rights  for  all,  the  Declaration  was 
envisioned to be a blueprint to promote universal rights 
for all people. Today, the Declaration is revered as one 
of the most fundamental documents within the sphere 
of international human rights.
On  25  June  1993,  the  world  reaffirmed  the 
importance  of  the  universality  of  human  rights  with 
the adoption of the Vienna Declaration and Programme 
of  Action,  which  further  forged  the  linkages  between 
peace,  security,  human  rights  and  development. 
All  human 
indivisible, 
interdependent and interrelated. Our countries remain 
resolute  in  the  defence  of  the  universal  values  and 
inalienable rights due to every human being.
remain  universal, 
rights 
The  key  contributions  and  advocacy  of  women 
in  the  drive  to  create  the  Universal  Declaration  were 
substantial  and  led  to  the  significant  advancement 
worldwide  of  women’s  rights  and  empowerment.  As 
we  note  with  appreciation,  Madam  President,  your 
presidency is historic, as you are only the fourth woman 
to have served as President of the General Assembly.
On  10  December,  the  world  celebrated  Human 
Rights Day, which served as an opportunity to reflect 
on  the  progress  made  toward  the  universalization  of 
fundamental  rights  and  freedoms.  Such  occasions 
are  truly  beneficial  as  they  encourage  us  to  reassess 
the  broad  spectrum  of  human  rights  situations  and 
to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  removing  barriers 
that  may  infringe  on  the  full  and  equal  enjoyment  of 
human rights.
A historic milestone was reached a few months ago, 
when, for the first time since the establishment of the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  2006,  an  English-speaking 
small island developing State from the Caribbean region 
was elected to become a member. The membership of 
the Bahamas on the Human Rights Council will allow 
the  deliberation  among  its  members  of  the  unique 
experiences  and  perspectives  of  CARICOM,  such  as 
those  relating  to  the  environment,  climate  change, 
decent work, migration, inequality, gender and youth.
Our  region  is  pleased  with  that  achievement  and 
looks forward to more opportunities to participate on 
the international stage in this vital area of international 
discourse.  At  this  juncture,  CARICOM  expresses 
its  sincere  appreciation  to  the  donor  countries  of  the 
Voluntary Technical Assistance Trust Fund to Support 
the  Participation  of  Least  Developed  Countries  and 
Small  Island  Developing  States  in  the  Work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  The  programme  designed  by 
the Trust Fund is invaluable in enriching understanding 
on  substantive  agenda  items  and  procedures  of  the 
Human Rights Council.
The drafters of the Universal Declaration succeeded 
in the attempt to craft a document that would provide 
hope  and  dignity,  a  document  in  which  the  universal 
human  rights  for  every  man,  woman  and  child  would 
be enshrined. Since then, a number of instruments to 
protect  and  promote  human  rights  have  been  crafted 
to  ensure  the  full  enjoyment  of  those  rights  by  all. 
Instruments  such  as  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the Child and the Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women  underscore 
the  importance  of  universality,  equality,  participation 
and the rule of law, which firmly buttress development.
18-44573
9/12
A/73/PV.57 
18/12/2018
The  world  has  worked  tirelessly  to  ensure  that 
rights for all becomes a reality. We have accomplished 
many  goals,  but  as  with  any  worthwhile  effort,  the 
journey  continues.  While  the  Universal  Declaration 
speaks to universal human rights, the world still faces 
ongoing  challenges  and  the  Caribbean  region  has 
particular concerns in that regard. Climate change is a 
particular challenge for small island developing States 
(SIDS)  with  regard  to  our  realizing  all  fundamental 
human rights and freedoms. The special vulnerabilities 
of SIDS to the negative implications of climate change 
threaten certain rights, such as the right to water, food 
and housing and, as a result, impede our progress in the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
and targets.
regional  and 
In  that  vein,  we  support  measures  to  enhance 
bilateral, 
international  cooperation 
aimed at addressing the adverse impact of consecutive 
and  compounded  global  crises,  such  as  financial  and 
economic crises, food crises, climate change and natural 
disasters, on the full enjoyment of human rights.
In  addition,  we  recall  the  need  for  a  holistic 
approach to addressing human rights matters, whereby 
we  remain  mindful  of  the  nexus  between  peace  and 
security, sustainable development and human rights.
I  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for  organizing 
this  important  session  and  would  like  to  assure 
Member  States  of  CARICOM’s  full  commitment  to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms with the aim of ensuring a better 
world for all through peace, fairness, justice, equality 
and dignity.
Mr.  Kickert  (Austria):  On  10  December  1948, 
after  the  horrors  of  the  Second  World  War,  the  world 
community  came  together  to  adopt  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of 
achievement for all peoples and all nations.
Against the backdrop of the end of the Cold War, 
the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights continued 
the path embarked upon in 1948 and broke new ground 
in  the  international  protection  of  human  rights  by 
agreeing on the Vienna Declaration and Programme of 
Action, which clearly laid out that:
“[d]emocracy, development and respect for human 
rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent 
and mutually reinforcing”.
It  also  led  to  the  establishment  of  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights, which was a true milestone in the institutional 
protection of human rights.
The year 2018 provides us with not only a chance 
to  commemorate  the  adoption  of  those  two  landmark 
documents,  but  also  the  opportunity  to  engage  in  an 
honest and open reflection on what we have achieved 
and  where  more  needs  to  be  done.  Despite  the 
achievements  of  the  past  70  years,  we  still  witness 
that the inherent dignity and inalienable human rights 
of  all  human  beings  are  often  not  guaranteed.  We 
witness  a  backtracking  on  established  human  rights 
commitments across the globe. Increasingly, the need 
to  address  human  rights  challenges  seems  confronted 
with  mistrust  and  hostility.  In  many  countries,  civil 
society  organizations  and  human  rights  defenders,  to 
whom we will pay special tribute later today, are faced 
with pressure, restrictions, reprisals or even worse.
In  that  context  Austria,  together  with  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, organized a conference for human rights experts 
from  all  world  regions  in  Vienna  on  22  and  23  May 
to  commemorate  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the 
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, entitled 
“Vienna + 25: Building Trust — Making Human Rights 
a Reality for All”. At the conference, stakeholders from 
civil society, academia and international organizations 
discussed  how  global  trends  such  as  urbanization, 
digitalization,  demographic  changes  and  climate 
change would shape the human rights agenda of the next 
decade. Only if human rights are effectively protected 
when  we  address  those  new  challenges  can  they  play 
their role as a stabilizing factor for the effective rule of 
law, to combat social exclusion, as an important driver 
for sustainable security and as a guarantor and creator 
of justice and equality in a spirit of solidarity.
The outcome of that fruitful exchange is reflected in 
action-oriented recommendations on the two key themes 
of the conference — human rights and security and the 
promotion  of  equality  in  our  societies.  The  outcome 
document,  which  was  circulated  on  27  September 
and  is  contained  as  an  annex  in  document  A/73/399, 
comprises  the  main  elements  of  the  discussions.  I 
encourage  everyone  to  thoroughly  reflect  on  those 
suggestions from the field and to include civil society 
in our task of tackling future challenges.
10/12 
18-44573
18/12/2018 
A/73/PV.57
Let us not forget our common conclusion from the 
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action:
“Human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
are  the  birthright  of  all  human  beings;  their 
protection and promotion is the first responsibility 
of Governments.”
In that spirit, Austria looks forward to cooperating 
with  all  Member  States  in  our  upcoming  three-year 
term  as  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
following up on those recommendations and becoming 
one step closer to making human rights a reality for all.
Mr.  Lukyantsev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  Today’s  General  Assembly  meeting  is 
dedicated  to  a  truly  historic  event.  Seventy  years 
ago, States adopted a document that shaped the entire 
modern  system  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights.
Nazism had just gone down to historic defeat, along 
with the human-hating ideology of national socialism, 
whose  founding  principle  was  the  superiority  of  one 
race  over  all  the  rest.  It  is  therefore  no  surprise  that 
even today the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
sounds like a kind of political manifesto and manual, 
providing  a  set  of  principles  and  guidelines  that 
members of the international community should follow 
in developing responses and solutions to today’s human 
rights  challenges.  That  is  why  it  is  rightly  considered 
the standard to which States should aspire.
In  the  ensuing  years  the  Declaration’s  provisions 
were  enshrined  in  States’  Constitutions  and  national 
legislation,  as  well  as  in  international  treaties  both 
multilateral  and  regional.  Although  the  Declaration 
itself does not have the force of a binding international 
treaty, it has been universally acknowledged by States 
whose  level  of  development,  political  systems  and 
cultural traditions differ substantially. The fact that the 
Declaration  does  not  prescribe  one-sided  approaches 
but  rather  highlights  the  importance  of  diversity  and 
of  considering  regional  specificities  and  countries’ 
different  national,  cultural,  religious  and  historic 
traditions has played a major part in this.
collective process of formulating and taking decisions. 
As it was 70 years ago, the United Nations should be the 
main driver of that process. At the same time, realizing 
the  goals  of  the  Declaration  in  our  lives  depends 
primarily on States.
in 
Since  the  Declaration  was  adopted,  significant 
progress  has  been  made 
in  overcoming  discord 
and  disagreement 
the  area  of  human  rights. 
Nevertheless,  there  continue  to  be  serious  obstacles 
to  its  implementation.  New  challenges  and  threats 
constantly arise and hinder its implementation. In that 
regard, the joint efforts of the international community 
in  combating  transnational  problems  such  as  racism, 
extremism, discrimination, intolerance and xenophobia 
are  particularly  important.  All  of  these  phenomena 
are primarily focused on denying the main idea of the 
Declaration, under which “[a]ll human beings are born 
free and equal in dignity and rights”.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  was 
written  and  adopted  immediately  after  the  Second 
World  War.  To  a  large  extent,  it  was  humankind’s 
response  to  the  suffering  caused  by  that  tragedy  and 
its  desire  to  ensure  that  what  had  led  to  it  would  not 
happen again — the doctrine of Nazism, which divided 
humankind  into  higher  and  lesser  races,  some  better 
than others. Many of the States Members of the United 
Nations that adopted the Declaration suffered the terrible 
consequences of such doctrines in practice themselves. 
It  is  therefore  very  worrying  to  see  the  cynical  and 
increasingly  regular  and  systematic  attempts  today  to 
whitewash Nazism and distort history.
improving, 
is  continually  evolving  and 
Although the concept of human rights is a process 
that 
the 
Declaration is still relevant today. Moreover, its potential 
as a platform for dialogue is still underestimated. We 
believe firmly that it can be a powerful instrument for 
reducing  mistrust,  combating  intolerance,  building 
bridges  between  civilizations  and  overcoming  the 
dangerous prejudices, enmity and hatred that have led 
to social upheaval and wars for hundreds of years.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the observer of the League of Arab States.
The  successful  implementation  of  the  standards 
enshrined  in  the  Declaration  is  largely  dependent  on 
the steps that we take. Today it is more important than 
ever for States to renounce short-term political interests 
and  focus  their  efforts  on  strengthening  dialogue  and 
cooperation  and  involving  all  stakeholders  in  the 
Mr. Abdelaziz (League of Arab States) (spoke in 
Arabic):  We  are  meeting  today  within  the  framework 
of  the  seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
73  years  after  the  founding  of  both  the  League  of 
Arab  States  and  the  United  Nations  in  1945  as  two 
pioneering  organizations  in  the  area  of  multilateral 
18-44573
11/12
A/73/PV.57 
18/12/2018
work to maintain international peace and security and 
to preserve human dignity.
Based  on  that  shared  responsibility,  since  its 
establishment  the  League  of  Arab  States  has  always 
worked  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  and  follow  its  declarations  and  resolutions, 
first and foremost the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, which has served as the cornerstone of regional 
and national human rights systems.
Within the Arab human rights system, the Permanent 
Arab  Committee  for  Human  Rights,  established  in 
September  1968  as  the  first  permanent  committee 
of  the  region  under  the  auspices  of  the  Arab  League, 
working to promote human rights throughout the Arab 
region,  was  in  line  with  that  important  international 
instrument. Regional efforts have continued at both the 
structural and the legislative level, whereby a number 
of steps have been taken, the most important of which 
are the following.
First,  the  revised  Arab  Charter  on  Human  Rights 
was adopted at the March 2004 Arab League summit 
as a reference document for the region to incorporate 
human  rights  within  the  basic  national  interests  of 
Arab States.
Second, 
the  Arab  Human  Rights  Committee 
was  established  in  2009  in  accordance  with  the  Arab 
Charter  on  Human  Rights,  after  the  latter’s  entry 
into  force  on  16  March  2008,  to  consider  reports  of 
the  States  members  of  the  Arab  League  on  measures 
taken to promote the rights and freedoms set out in the 
Arab Charter.
Third,  the  date  of  the  Arab  Charter’s  entry  into 
force,  16  March,  was  adopted  as  Arab  Human  Rights 
Day,  which  is  celebrated  annually  by  the  League  of 
Arab  States  at  the  ministerial  level.  It  provides  an 
opportunity  to  carry  out  discussions  on  human  rights 
and  adopt  the  necessary  recommendations  to  develop 
Arab human rights.
Fourth, the 2009-2014 Arab Plan for Human Rights 
Education  was  adopted  at  the  Arab  League  summit 
with the goal of including human rights in the curricula 
of the education system at various levels.
Fifth, the 2010-2015 Arab plan to foster the culture 
of  human  rights  was  adopted  at  the  Arab  League 
summit to strengthen a culture of human rights in the 
Arab world and to ensure the enjoyment thereof by all 
individuals, groups and sectors of society.
Sixth,  the  Legislative,  Legal  and  Human  Rights 
Committee was established as part of the Arab Parliament 
to  enable  Arab  parliamentarians  to  participate  in  and 
contribute to policymaking and implementation of the 
relevant policies in their respective countries.
Seventh,  a  human  rights  conference  bringing 
together the leaders responsible for guaranteeing those 
rights  was  launched  under  the  auspices  of  the  Arab 
Permanent  Committee  on  Human  Rights,  which  was 
the result of cooperation between the Arab League and 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights.
Strengthening human rights is an integral part of the 
existing cooperation framework shared by the League 
of Arab States and the United Nations, as well as many 
other  regional  organizations,  such  as  the  European 
Union,  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation,  the 
African Union and the International Federation of Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies, among others. The 
Arab  League’s  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
is evident through its holding since 2014 of a biennial 
regional high-level meeting on the protection of human 
rights  jointly  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
As  we  celebrate  the  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
the  Vienna 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action,  the  content  of 
those  two  documents  undoubtedly  constitutes  noble 
purposes  to  protect  the  right  to  life  and  to  lay  the 
foundations  for  achieving  freedom,  justice  and  peace 
throughout  the  world.  In  that  regard,  we  stress  the 
importance  of  establishing  peace  and  finding  radical 
and sustained solutions to the crises all over the world, 
especially the crisis in the Middle East. In particular, 
we  underscore  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
pursue  their  struggle  to  enjoy  their  rights  free  from 
occupation, as well as resolving all other problems in the 
Arab region, so that the people can exercise their rights 
guaranteed  by  the  relevant  international  and  regional 
covenants and conventions, in particular the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  The  Arab  League  will 
continue its involvement in and maximum support for 
the  implementation  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  hopes  and 
aspirations of our peoples to enjoy a better life are met.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in this commemorative meeting.
The meeting rose at 11.25 a.m.
12/12 
18-44573
