United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
35th plenary meeting
Thursday, 15 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Al-Thani 
(Qatar), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 117
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/73/481)
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): In paragraph 
6 of its report, the Fifth Committee recommends that 
the General Assembly appoint the following persons as 
members of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and  Budgetary  Questions  for  a three-year  term  of 
office  beginning  on  1  January  2019: Mr.  Yves  Éric 
Ahoussougbemey (Benin), Mr. Amjad Qaid Al Kumaim 
(Yemen),  Mr.  Makiese  Kinkela  Augusto (Angola), 
Mr  Ihor  Humennyi  (Ukraine)  and  Mr.  Conrod Hunte 
(Antigua and Barbuda).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  those  persons  as  members  of  the  Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2019?
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee on 
its  report, 
Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/73/483)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
paragraph  4  of 
the  Fifth  Committee 
recommends  that  the  General  Assembly  appoint  the 
following  persons  as  members  of  the  Committee  on 
Contributions for a three-year term of office beginning 
on  1  January  2019:  Mr.  Syed  Yawar  Ali  (Pakistan), 
Mr.  Robert  Ngei  Mule  (Kenya),  Mr.  Toshiro  Ozawa 
(Japan), Mr. Tõnis Saar (Estonia) and Mr. Brett Dennis 
Schaefer (United States of America).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint those persons as members of the Committee on 
Contributions for a three-year term of office beginning 
on 1 January 2019?
It was so decided.
(c) Confirmation of the appointment of members of 
the Investments Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/73/484)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
paragraph  4  of 
the  Fifth  Committee 
recommends  that  the  General  Assembly  confirm  the 
appointment  by  the  Secretary-General  of  Ms.  Keiko 
Honda (Japan) as a regular member of the Investments 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2019.
its  report, 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  confirm  the  appointment  by  the  Secretary-General 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-37787 (E)
*1837787*

A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
of  Ms.  Keiko  Honda  as  a  regular  member  of  the 
Investments Committee for a three-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2019?
It was so decided.
(d) Confirmation of the appointment of members 
of the International Civil Service Commission
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/73/485)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
paragraph  8  (a)  of  its  report,  the  Fifth  Committee 
recommends  that  the  General  Assembly  appoint  the 
following  persons  as  members  of  the  International
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office
beginning  on  1  January  2019:  Mr.  Andrew  Gbebay 
Bangali  (Sierra  Leone),  Ms.  Marie-Françoise  Bechtel 
(France), Ms. Carleen Gardner (Jamaica), Mr. Ali Kurer 
(Libya) and Mr. Bogusław Winid of Poland.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint those persons as members of the International 
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2019?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
paragraph 8 (b) of the same report, the Fifth Committee 
also recommends that the General Assembly designate 
Mr. Larbi Djacta (Algeria) as Chair of the International 
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2019.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
designate Mr. Larbi Djacta as Chair of the International 
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2019?
It was so decided.
(f) Appointment of members of the Joint 
Inspection Unit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/479 and 
A/73/479/Corr.1)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As 
indicated in document A/73/479, the General Assembly 
is  required,  during  its  current  session,  to  appoint  one 
member of the Joint Inspection Unit to fill the vacancy 
that will result from the expiration of the term of office 
on 31 December 2019 of Ms. Keiko Kamioka (Japan).
In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
statute of the Joint Inspection Unit, the President of the 
General Assembly shall consult with Member States to 
draw up a list of countries, or in this case one country, 
which  will  be  requested  to  propose  a  candidate  for 
appointment  to  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit.  As  further 
indicated in document A/73/479, the General Assembly, 
by its resolution 61/238 of 22 December 2006, decided 
that, beginning on 1 January 2008, the President of the 
General Assembly, when drawing up a list of countries 
that  will  be  requested  to  propose  candidates,  in 
accordance with article 3, paragraph 1, of the statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, will invite Member States to 
submit the names of the countries and their respective 
candidates  simultaneously,  on 
the  understanding 
that  the  candidates  submitted  are  the  candidates  that 
the  respective  Member  States  intend  to  propose,  to 
the  extent  possible,  for  appointment  by  the  General 
Assembly,  in  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  2, 
of the statute.
After holding the necessary consultations, I should 
like to communicate to the Assembly the information 
received  from  the  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific 
States that the Group has endorsed Japan to propose a 
candidate for the vacancy from among the Asia-Pacific 
States. In accordance with article 3, paragraph 1, of the 
statute of the Joint Inspection Unit and in accordance 
with  resolution  61/238,  Japan  will  be  requested  to 
submit the name of a candidate and the curriculum vitae 
highlighting the candidate’s relevant qualifications for 
the task.
I would like to remind Members that, in accordance 
with  Assembly  resolution  59/267  of  23  December 
2004,  the  candidate  should  have  experience  in  at 
least  one  of  the  following  fields:  oversight,  audit, 
inspection,  investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project 
evaluation,  programme  evaluation,  human-resources 
management,  management,  public  administration, 
monitoring and/or programme performance, as well as 
knowledge of the United Nations system and its role in 
international relations.
After  holding 
the  appropriate  consultations 
described  in  article  3,  paragraph  2,  of  the  statute  of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with 
the President of the Economic and Social Council and 
with the Secretary-General in his capacity as Chair of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
will submit the name of the candidate to the Assembly 
for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit.
2/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of sub-items (a), (b), (c), (d) 
and (f) of agenda item 117.
The President took the Chair.
Agenda items 122 and 123
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
The President: It is an honour for me to preside over 
the opening of the Assembly’s discussion of its agenda 
item  relating  to  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Throughout  almost  three  decades 
of deliberations, that process has sought to strengthen 
the  authority,  role  and  effectiveness  of  the  Assembly 
and improve its methods of work. Today’s debate comes 
at a very critical moment for multilateralism, with the 
United  Nations  at  its  core.  There  is  no  question  that 
for several reasons, doubts are being raised about the 
ability of the multilateral system to find solutions to the 
global challenges that confront us. While the challenges 
that  we  face  are  becoming  more  and  more  global, 
requiring  multilateral  solutions,  we  are  witnessing 
trends towards unilateralism and isolation. However, it 
is also encouraging that those trends have led to some 
statements  reaffirming  multilateralism  that  are  the 
strongest we have heard in decades.
I  returned  last  night  from  the  commemoration 
activities  for  the  1918  Armistice  in  Paris,  at  which 
the  representation  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the 
parliament  of  the  world  was  of  symbolic  importance. 
I  bring  messages  of  peace  and  reinforced  support 
for  multilateralism,  as  well  as  high  expectations  for 
the  work  of  the  Assembly,  from  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  who  participated  in  the  commemoration. 
The strong call by world leaders for a world order based 
on  multilateralism  during  the  general  debate  of  the 
Assembly  also  signalled  a  reassuring  commitment  to 
reversing the negative tide. The record-breaking level 
of  participation  in  that  debate  is  further  evidence  of 
the  renewed  importance  that  world  leaders  attach  to 
the centrality of the United Nations to multilateralism. 
With 126 delegations represented at the level of Heads 
of State and Government, it was the largest high-level 
event  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  since the  2005 
World Summit. For my part, I have taken it as a personal 
responsibility to uphold the values and importance of 
the General Assembly, not only here in New York but 
in every one of my official engagements.
If  we  needed  a  new  mandate  for  the  serious 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  message 
could  not  have  been  stronger.  The  need  to  revitalize 
the Assembly — the most representative body and the 
chief  deliberative  authority  of  our  Organization  —  is 
essential to our efforts to respond effectively to global 
challenges, and to leave no one behind in the quest to 
fulfil  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
The  good  news  for  us  is  that  we  do  not  have  to  start 
from  scratch  when  it  comes  to  revitalizing  the  work 
of  the  Assembly.  Indeed,  we  have  adopted  many 
resolutions in previous sessions that have contributed to 
significant progress on the issue. We must build on the 
many  achievements  realized  so  far,  including  —  and 
to  mention  only  a  few  —  the  establishment  of  more 
transparent  selection  and  appointment  processes  for 
both  the  Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly; the introduction of an oath of office 
and  code  of  ethics  and  other  matters  relating  to  the 
President’s Office; the initiation of morning dialogues 
as a space for genuine and constructive debate among 
Permanent  Representatives,  for  which  I  commend  my 
immediate predecessor in the presidency of the General 
Assembly, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák; the establishment of a 
clear time frame for electing members of the Economic 
and Social Council and the Security Council; and the 
improvement of methods of work.
In  that  context  I  want  to  say  that  I  am  honoured 
to  be  the  first  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
to  go  through  an  interactive  dialogue  with  Member 
States  and  other  stakeholders  that  introduced  further 
transparency and inclusivity into the selection process. 
I look forward to improving the informal dialogue for 
the  selection  of  my  successor,  as  already  mandated 
by  resolution  72/313,  entitled  “Revitalization  of  the 
work of the General Assembly”, including through the 
establishment  of  guidelines  for  informal  interactive 
dialogue. We also look forward to seeing more female 
candidates for the position of President, as I am only the 
fourth woman to occupy that prestigious position out of 
the 73 Presidents we have had since the establishment 
of the United Nations.
These  achievements  have  been  made  possible 
thanks to the constructive engagement of Member States 
and the commitment of the co-Chairs of the process. I 
would like to take this opportunity to pay special tribute 
to Ambassadors Drobnjak of Croatia and Mejía Vélez 
18-37787
3/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
of  Colombia  for  their  dedicated  work  as  co-Chairs  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the Work of the General Assembly during its seventy-
second session. I am confident that the Assembly will 
give its full support to the newly appointed co-Chairs, 
Ambassadors Bahous of Jordan and Mlynár of Slovakia. 
However, despite the progress that has been made, we 
still have room for further improvements in the way we 
do business in the Assembly. I would like to point out 
some areas of possible progress.
First, the general debate must preserve its primacy 
and pre-eminence as a unique forum for world leaders 
to  discuss  the  world’s  most  pressing  issues.  In  that 
regard, we have to make sure that parallel activities do 
not overshadow the debate itself. Member States have 
expressed  concern  about  the  huge  number  of  events 
that were held during this most recent general debate. 
Six high-level meetings and some 560 other meetings 
were convened by regional and other political groups, 
individual  Member  States  and  the  United  Nations 
system itself, which is a record, totalling more than 600 
events.  But  we  have  to  ask  ourselves  if  that  really  is 
productive and fulfils the role of the General Assembly 
as a space for dialogue and deliberation on world affairs 
at the highest level. For the seventy-fourth session, we 
are already struggling with the dates and organizational 
arrangements for the already extremely busy first week, 
with many parallel mandated events. We must address 
that issue collectively within a specified time frame, as 
part of the revitalization process.
Secondly,  we  should  look  at  the  possibilities  for 
further streamlining our agenda so that we can dedicate 
more time for holding genuine dialogue, reviewing the 
implementation of resolutions and strengthening their 
quality and effectiveness. Addressing the issue of the 
growing  number  of  agenda  items  and  resolutions,  as 
well as their length and the consequent lengthening of 
negotiation processes, must be part of that dialogue and 
engagement.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  applaud 
Guyana’s  leadership  in  taking  the  decision  to  remove 
item 16 as a stand-alone item from this session’s agenda, 
which  should  inspire  us  all  and  generate  momentum 
towards further streamlining our work.
The  problem  of  our  multiple  and  overlapping 
events and issues must be addressed through a process 
of  aligning  the  agendas  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Assembly’s 
subsidiary  bodies,  especially  the  Second  and  Third 
Committees,  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Thirdly, 
the  context  of  strengthening 
Development.  I  call  on  Member  States  to  work  hard 
on  that  process  in  order  to  address  the  gaps  and 
duplications in our various agendas and make sure that 
we deliver effectively and efficiently for the people we 
are here to serve.
in 
the 
accountability, transparency and institutional memory 
of my Office, I would like to reiterate my commitment 
to ensuring the continuity of the best practices of my 
predecessors, including in terms of disclosure relating 
to  financing,  staffing  and  the  travel  details  of  my 
Office. I  am  building  on  the  practice  of  coordinating 
closely  with  the  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,
including  through  meetings  and  sharing  summaries 
of  the  monthly  discussions  with  the  Presidents  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Security 
Council. I am also working to ensure close and regular 
collaboration with the Secretary-General.
Furthermore, I am committed to making better use 
of the General Committee’s potential in our efforts to 
further improve our agenda and the way we deliver on 
it. The Office of the President has already had a distinct 
impact  on  the  way  we  communicate,  and  we  plan  to 
further strengthen communication so as to ensure that 
the  people  of  the  world  understand  and  support  our 
work  and  outcomes.  As  far  as  my  convening  power 
is  concerned,  I  will  strive  to  contribute  to  further 
rationalizing  the  number  of  high-level  meetings  and 
thematic debates. I will therefore focus on meetings and 
events that are already mandated in order to contribute 
in  the  areas  that  are  defined  in  my  priorities  for  the 
session, while limiting the number of new initiatives.
I  trust  that  during  the  current  session,  Member 
States will continue their consideration of possible ways 
to  further  strengthen  the  institutional  memory  of  the 
Office of the President. We will have the opportunity to 
provide  the  necessary  information  for  the  Assembly’s 
consideration in order to address the challenges related 
to the lack of preparation time for the new President, 
who  assumes  the  presidency  only  a  few  days  before 
the beginning of the general debate, as well as issues 
such  as  staffing  and  the  mobilization of  the  funding 
needed to ensure that the growing numbers of mandates 
have  the  sustainable  and  predictable  resources  that 
accomplishing them requires.
Let me conclude with a call for a stronger political 
commitment on the part of all Member States so that we 
can come up with bold and creative ways to make the 
4/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
General  Assembly  relevant  to  all  people.  We  have  no 
choice if we want to safeguard the values, institutions 
and  practices  that  are  our  only  guarantee  for  a  safe, 
secure and prosperous world.
Mr.  Bessedik  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  of 
speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries  (NAM),  one  of  the  largest  cross-regional 
groups, consisting of 120 member States. At the outset, 
let  me  say  that  all  ceremonial  protocol,  including 
expressions  of  appreciation  to  the  co-Chairs  and  the 
President of the General Assembly, is hereby respected.
We would like to reiterate that the revitalization of 
the work of the General Assembly is a critical component 
of the comprehensive reform of the United Nations. A 
reinvigorated  Assembly  will  contribute  significantly 
to  strengthening  the  wider  United  Nations  system, 
improving  international  governance  and  enhancing 
multilateralism. A thorough evaluation of the status of 
General Assembly resolutions and the ability to clearly 
identify the causes underlying anything lacking in their 
implementation  are  crucial  to  ensuring  that  we  can 
make progress in eliminating the constraints that still 
prevent the process of revitalizing the Assembly from 
realizing its full potential.
We  agree  fully  with  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
consensus  resolutions  69/321,  70/305,  71/323  and 
72/313,  which  form  the  cornerstones  of  the  ongoing 
United  Nations  reform  process.  In 
that  regard, 
the  Movement  would  like  to  recall  the  decision  in 
paragraph  4  of  resolution  68/307,  as  well  as  in  the 
four  resolutions  just  mentioned,  on  continuing  the 
comprehensive  review  of  the  inventory  of  resolutions 
on  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  status  of  their  implementation.  Today  we  want  to 
underline the following points.
to 
First,  with  regard 
the  Secretary-General’s 
selection and appointment, the process should continue 
to  be  transparent,  democratic  and  inclusive  of  all 
Member  States  so  as  to  enable  the  General  Assembly 
to participate in it effectively and efficiently. NAM is 
proud to recall the role played by the Assembly under 
Article  97  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
our  consensus  resolutions  69/321,  70/305,  71/323  and 
72/313. While we welcome the signing of the joint letter 
by which the Presidents of the General Assembly and the 
Security Council formally launch the beginning of the 
process, it is NAM’s clear understanding that regardless 
of the stage that has been reached in the presentation 
of  the  candidates,  the  new  procedure,  as  outlined  in 
that joint letter, will remain the main framework to be 
strictly adhered to in future selection and appointment 
processes.  We  call  on  the  Presidents  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council to continue to hold 
timely informal meetings for an exchange of views with 
the candidates presented by Member States.
In  that  regard,  NAM  emphasizes  the  importance 
of providing the selection and appointment process for 
the position of Secretary-General with clear timelines, 
based on resolution 69/321, that include the issuing of 
the aforementioned joint letter covering the submission 
of candidates, the completion of the General Assembly’s 
hearings for all candidates, and the Security Council’s 
selection process, followed by the Assembly’s adoption 
of a resolution on the appointment. NAM calls on the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council  to  work  in  close  consultation  with  Member 
States on those timelines. We strongly believe that in 
order  to  ensure  a  smooth  and  efficient  transition,  the 
Secretary-General  should  be  appointed  as  early  as 
possible, preferably no later than a month before the date 
on  which  the  term  of  the  outgoing  Secretary-General 
expires. We welcome further discussion in the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the General Assembly of all the options regarding the 
duration  of  the  appointment  and  renewability  of  the 
term of office of the Secretary-General.
NAM  would  like  to  highlight  the  discussion  that 
was  held  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  emphasizing 
the desirability of having the Security Council consider 
providing  a  plurality  of  candidates  to  the  General 
Assembly  for  future  appointments  of  the  Secretary-
General,  and  we  emphasize  the  need  to  continue 
that  discussion  on 
the  appointment  process.  We 
encourage  increased  openness  during  that  selection 
and appointment process and invite the President of the 
Security Council to announce the results of straw polls 
in  a  timely  manner,  while  giving  priority  to  Member 
States. NAM stresses once again that it has no intention 
of calling into question the confidentiality of the straw-
poll process because it deals with the results. We also 
believe,  as  suggested  in  the  2011  report  (A/66/234) 
of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  (JIU),  that  prevailing 
practices  followed  in  the  election  of  executive  heads 
in  other  United  Nations  system  organizations  might 
also be suitable for the appointment of the Secretary-
General. We therefore recommend considering existing 
practices. NAM also calls on the Joint Inspection Unit 
18-37787
5/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
to  include  in  its  work  programme  the  preparation  of 
analyses  and  recommendations  on  the  selection  and 
appointment  of  executive  heads  and  senior  managers 
in  the  United  Nations  system.  We  would  also  like  to 
draw  attention  to  the  issue  of  promises  being  made 
by  candidates  in  exchange  for  the  support  of  the 
permanent members of the Security Council, which is 
also described in the 2011 JIU report.
to  regional  and  geographical  rotation  and  to  gender 
equality,  as  stipulated  in  paragraph  59  of  resolutions 
51/241,  69/321,  70/305  and  71/323.  NAM  encourages 
efforts to improve the selection of executive heads and 
enhance  the  transparency,  inclusivity  and  credibility 
of  the  process,  including  by  conducting  interactive 
meetings  with  candidates  running  for  those  posts, 
where applicable.
We  welcome  the  significant  number  of  women 
proposed  as  candidates  to  subsidiary  bodies  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  its  efforts  to  promote  gender 
balance,  as  stipulated  in  paragraph  44  of  resolution 
71/323  and  paragraph  32  of  resolution  72/313,  and 
we  encourage  Member  States  to  continue  to  propose 
women  candidates.  We  reiterate  that  the  process  of 
the General Assembly’s appointment of the Secretary-
General should be carried out in full compliance with 
the  Assembly’s  mandate.  That  includes  the  timely 
submission of the relevant draft resolution, which should 
be preceded by wide and extensive consultations with 
all Member States, as well as ensuring that the action 
of the General Assembly on the recommendation made 
by the Security Council is in full and strict conformity 
with rule 141 of the rules of procedure of the General 
Assembly, including voting by secret ballot.
NAM  welcomes  the  collaboration  between  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council — on the 
launch of the process and the circulation of information 
on  the  candidates  nominated  —  that  emerged  during 
the  selection  of  our  present  Secretary-General,  and 
encourages  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly  to  improve  their  interaction  at  every  stage 
of  the  process  so  as  to  further  enhance  transparency. 
Bearing  in  mind  the  importance  of  the  best  practices 
and  lessons  learned  from  the  latest  selection  and 
appointment  process,  NAM  is  of  the  view  that  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  should  consider  compiling 
a  compendium  of  best  practices  for  future  reference. 
We  have  noted  the  request  sent  by  the  Secretariat  to 
all  Member  States  encouraging  them  to  nominate 
candidates  in  order  to  supplement  the  search  for  the 
new  Secretary-General  and  to  ensure  a  wide  pool  of 
candidates for positions at the Under-Secretary-General 
level, as well as welcoming the nomination of women 
candidates.  In  that  regard,  NAM  stresses  the  need  to 
ensure  that  information  on  positions  available  at  the 
level  of  Under-Secretary-General  and  other  senior 
posts is circulated earlier and more broadly to the wider 
membership.  Due  regard  should  continue  to  be  given 
Secondly,  with 
regard 
to  strengthening 
the 
institutional memory of the Office of the President of 
the General Assembly, NAM finds it encouraging that 
an oath of office and a code of ethics for the President 
of the General Assembly have been adopted for the first 
time  in  the  Assembly’s  history.  The  expansion  of  the 
Assembly’s activities has made the President’s presence 
and active participation essential all year long. We also 
reiterate the need to assign additional permanent posts 
to the Office of the President of the General Assembly, 
and  we  appreciate  the  concrete  support  that  some 
Member States have given the Office of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  by  seconding  staffers  to  it 
from their own Missions. NAM also considers it very 
important  to  ensure  successful  annual  transitions 
between  the  outgoing  and  incoming  Presidents  of  the 
Assembly, and supports the process whereby outgoing 
Presidents brief their successors on lessons learned and 
best practices. NAM supports an effective and genuine 
strengthening of the institutional memory of the Office 
of the President of the General Assembly, as well as the 
allocation of sufficient human and financial resources 
to  the  Office  from  the  regular  budget  of  the  United 
Nations.
intergovernmental, 
Thirdly,  with  regard  to  the  role  and  authority 
of 
the  General  Assembly,  NAM  reaffirms 
that 
working  methods  are  only  one  step  on  the  way  to 
more  substantive  improvements  aimed  at  restoring 
and  enhancing  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly. We also affirm the importance of preserving 
the 
inclusive  and  democratic 
nature  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  ensuring  that 
Member  States  consult  with  the  Organization.  NAM 
emphasizes  the  need  for  strict  respect  on  the  part  of 
Member  States  for  the  Charter-based  prerogatives  of 
the  United  Nations  principal  organs,  particularly  the 
General Assembly. We also support the initiative aimed 
at  ensuring  proper  implementation  of  the  Charter 
with  respect  to  the  functional  relationship  between 
its main organs, especially the General Assembly and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  We  welcome  the 
6/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
establishment  of  a  standing  mechanism  for  dialogue 
between  the  Permanent  Missions  and  the  Secretariat 
within the framework of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly 
and look forward to continuing discussions within that 
framework.
Lastly,  concerning  the  working  methods  of  the 
General  Assembly,  we  welcome  paragraph  58  of 
resolution  72/313,  which  notes  with  appreciation 
the  changes  to  the  format,  production  and  editing 
of  the  Journal  of  the  United  Nations,  and  requests 
the  Secretariat  to  continue  improving  the  Journal  in 
accordance with the requirements provided in paragraph 
51  of  resolution  71/323.  We  also  welcome  paragraph 
52  of  resolution  72/313  and  paragraphs  47  and  48  of 
resolution  71/323,  on  the  subject  of  communicating 
the names of candidates for election to the Secretariat, 
where possible, at least 48 hours prior to an election, as 
well as printing their names on the ballot papers, and the 
decision that on election day, the campaign materials in 
the General Assembly Hall or the Committee meeting 
room should be limited to a single page of information 
about the candidates.
In seeking to further improve the efficiency of the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  strongly  believe 
that  certain  draft  resolutions  should  be  considered  on 
a  biennial  or  triennial  cycle,  with  the  clear  consent 
of  the  sponsoring  State  or  States,  while  bearing  in 
mind  the  relevant  recommendations  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group,  as  stipulated  in  paragraph  27  of 
resolution 72/313. NAM would like to recall here that 
the Assembly has encouraged the Main Committees to 
continue  considering  and  making  proposals  on  their 
working  methods  during  the  current  session.  In  that 
connection,  NAM  reiterates  the  intergovernmental 
and  inclusive  nature  of  those  discussions  on  working 
methods,  which  must  engage  all  delegations.  NAM 
continues to stress that more time should be devoted to 
negotiations  on  the  draft  resolution  on  the  topic.  Last 
year’s  resolution  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the General Assembly (resolution 72/313) was adopted 
by  consensus,  as  we  know.  However,  we  continue  to 
insist that greater flexibility should be the rule for all 
Member States during the next round of negotiations, 
because  consensus  means  compromise  on  the  part  of 
all Member States.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  calls  for  appropriate 
measures  aimed  at  enhancing  public  awareness  of 
the  role  and  activities  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
encouraging  the  media  to  report  on  the  Assembly’s 
work.  We  welcomed  paragraph  40  of  resolution 
72/313, which decided to continue to consider ways to 
rationalize  the  number  of  side  events  held  during  the 
high-level segment of the general debate. That involves 
strengthening  the  coordination  of  the  revitalization 
process with the work of the Committee on Conferences. 
We should also take a closer look at the arrangements 
for  holding  debates  in  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council and their follow-up, given the number 
of  participating  delegations.  We  also  propose  holding 
briefings,  as  necessary,  with  the  Chairs  of  the  Main 
Committees, as well as a meeting with the Secretary-
General. And NAM calls for better monitoring of the 
implementation of past resolutions.
Before  concluding,  we  would  like  to  emphasize 
once more the need to review rule 155 of the Assembly’s 
rules of procedure, on the composition of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
(ACABQ),  taking  into  consideration  the  principles  of 
efficiency  and  equitable  geographical  representation. 
In  that  context,  NAM  made  an  initial  proposal, 
amended  by  the  co-Chairs,  which  NAM  accepted 
as  an  alternative  proposal.  Its  objective  is  a  review 
of  ACABQ’s  composition,  which  is  not  currently  in 
accord  with  the  principle  of  equitable  geographical 
representation.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  that  its 
composition has been reviewed three times in an effort 
to  compensate  for  an  evolving  situation.  The  main 
criterion that is involved in achieving that objective is 
the  growing  number  of  Member  States  in  the  United 
Nations, given the fact that 46 new Member States have 
joined the United Nations since the most recent decision 
was taken on the issue, in 1977 (resolution 32/103). That 
proposal was unfortunately rejected by certain Member 
States during negotiations on resolution 72/313. In the 
light of that, and given the political nature of the issue, 
in  the  next  few  weeks  NAM  has  decided  to  submit 
to  the  General  Assembly  a  draft  resolution  similar  to 
resolutions  adopted  in  1961  (1659  (XVI)),  1971  (2798 
(XXVI))  and  1977  (32/103),  whose  main  objective 
is  ensuring  adherence  to  the  principle  of  equitable 
geographical representation.
In 
conclusion, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  continuing  to  contribute 
effectively and constructively to the work of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the 
General Assembly. We hope to see a similar approach 
from  other  delegations  and  would  like  to  remind  the 
18-37787
7/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
Assembly  that  we  speak  on  behalf  of  120  United 
Nations Member States. In addition, NAM stands ready 
to cooperate with the co-Chairs, whom we congratulate 
on their new appointment, as well as with you, Madam 
President,  and  Secretary-General  António  Guterres, 
with  a  view  to  strengthening  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly  as  our  chief  deliberative  policymaking 
organ. We will continue to provide support to efforts to 
achieve  inclusiveness,  transparency  and  efficiency  in 
the United Nations.
Ms. Tang (Singapore): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the 10 member States of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
ASEAN  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  just 
delivered  by  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned Countries.
ASEAN  has  been  a 
We  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
previous  session’s  co-Chairs,  Ambassadors  Vladimir 
Drobnjak of Croatia and María Emma Mejía Vélez of 
Colombia. We particularly thank Ambassador Drobnjak 
for his contributions to the revitalization process over the 
past five years. ASEAN would also like to congratulate 
Ambassadors Sima Sami Bahous of Jordan and Michal 
Mlynár of Slovakia on their appointment as co-Chairs 
for the present session. We are confident that they will 
successfully steer the process forward.
strong 
supporter  of 
multilateralism  and  the  United  Nations.  We  have 
consistently  championed  a  more  efficient,  effective 
and accountable Organization. The revitalization of the 
work of the General Assembly, the main deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, is a critical component of the comprehensive 
reform of the United Nations. It is imperative that the 
United  Nations  and  the  General  Assembly  remain 
nimble  and  responsive  so  as  to  be  able  to  effectively 
address  evolving  challenges.  ASEAN 
recognizes 
the  significant  progress  that  has  been  made  in  recent 
years and welcomes the adoption of resolution 72/313. 
Nevertheless, the revitalization of the Assembly is an 
ongoing process. We cannot afford to lose momentum, 
especially  as  the  pace  of  work  in  the  United  Nations 
speeds  up.  In  that  connection  ASEAN  would  like  to 
make the following points.
the  best  candidate  for  that  very  important  position. 
But more can be done. In addition, we reiterate that the 
improvements to the selection and appointment process 
of the Secretary-General must also extend to all other 
senior appointments within the United Nations. ASEAN 
calls  on  the  Secretary-General  to  make  appointments 
based  on  merit  while  taking  into  account  gender  and 
geographical balance.
the  efforts 
Secondly,  ASEAN  appreciates 
to 
strengthen  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly. One particularly useful improvement in its 
institutional memory has been the outgoing President’s 
handover reports, which provide a useful summary of 
the  Office’s  accomplishments  and  offer  the  incoming 
President  pragmatic  recommendations.  ASEAN  notes 
that one recommendation in resolution 72/313 is that the 
process of the election of the President of the General 
Assembly should be further clarified. We are glad that 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  will  consider  that 
question during its current session.
initiative 
Thirdly,  as  a  regional  grouping 
that  greatly 
values  consensus  and  dialogue,  ASEAN  appreciates 
the  morning-dialogues 
the 
President of the Assembly at its previous session. The 
dialogues  provided  a  setting  that  enabled  Permanent 
Representatives to exchange views candidly, contributing 
significantly  to  the  Assembly’s  work.  We  encourage 
their continuation and welcome your intention, Madam 
President, to convene “morning mingas”.
launched  by 
Fourthly,  ASEAN  welcomes  the  improvements 
made in the working methods of the General Assembly, 
including in the election process, such as improvements 
to  ballot  papers  that  have  significantly  reduced  the 
number of invalid ballot papers. We are also pleased that 
campaign materials distributed on the day of elections 
have generally conformed to the Assembly’s decisions. 
ASEAN supports further work on the potential concept 
and  scope  of  guidelines  for  election  campaigns.  Such 
guidelines should not disadvantage any Member State 
but should rather focus on enhancing transparency and 
equity, as well as providing a collectively agreed set of 
parameters designed to ensure that campaigning does 
not turn into a race to the bottom.
First, we welcome the improvements in the selection 
and  appointment  process  of  the  Secretary-General, 
which have brought about a new standard of openness 
and  transparency  aimed  at  ensuring  the  selection  of 
I would now like to add a few points in my national 
capacity.  First,  Singapore  supports  efforts  to  utilize 
the General Committee more effectively. We note that 
resolution 72/313 contains several references to the role 
8/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
of the General Committee, including the consideration 
of ways to decrease the number of high-level events held 
during the general debate. The President’s synopsis of 
the  recent  high-level  week  notes  that  the  primacy  of 
the general debate cannot be preserved without making 
sure that parallel activities are managed rationally. In 
our view, that is a matter that the General Committee 
should consider seriously.
Secondly,  Singapore  is  of  the  view  that  more 
consideration  should  be  invested  in  scheduling  the 
meetings  of  the  General  Assembly.  Two  concrete 
examples  come  to  mind.  One  is  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization. 
The  debate  on  that  report  is  regularly  scheduled  for 
early October. Since at that point the general debate has 
only  just  taken  place,  the  debate  in  the  Assembly  on 
the  report  must  inevitably  be  duplicative.  My  second 
point  concerns  the  report  of  the  Security  Council, 
which is mandated under Article 24 of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations,  This  year  the  Security  Council 
adopted  its  annual  report  (S/2018/797)  on  30  August 
(see S/PV.8335). The report was formally circulated to 
Member States on 11 September, and the debate in the 
General Assembly was scheduled on 12 September. The 
timing of these debates should be reconsidered so that 
discussions of those important reports are not conducted 
in a perfunctory and rushed manner. We think that the 
General Committee may also be a suitable platform for 
discussing that issue.
Finally,  Singapore  welcomes 
the  continuing 
discussion  on  the  rationalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. That is important, as the continued 
proliferation  of  agenda  items  and  high-level  meetings 
can only lead to an unsustainable volume of work. On 
that note, we welcome Guyana’s voluntary decision to 
remove agenda item 16 from the agenda of the Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session.  We  hope  that  action  will 
generate  momentum  towards  further  streamlining  of 
the agenda. Quality must take precedence over quantity 
so  that  we  can  ensure  the  continued  credibility  and 
relevance of the United Nations.
Mr.  Carazo  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
my  national  capacity,  I  share  the  pleasure  that  you 
expressed  this  morning,  Madam  President,  about  the 
fact  that  you  are  presiding  over  this  meeting  on  the 
progress in the revitalization process of the work of the 
General Assembly.
(spoke in English)
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group 
(ACT), a cross-regional group made up of the following 
25  small  and  mid-sized  countries  seeking  to  improve 
the working methods of the Security Council: Austria, 
Chile,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  Gabon,  Ghana, 
Hungary, Ireland, Jordan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, 
Maldives, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, 
Peru,  Portugal,  Rwanda,  Saudi  Arabia,  Slovenia, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Uruguay  and  my  own  country, 
Costa Rica.
We would first like to thank you, Madam President, 
for convening today’s plenary meeting. We welcomed 
the adoption of resolution 72/313, on the revitalization 
of the work of the General Assembly, and would like to 
thank the co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly, 
Mr.  Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Croatia,  and  Ms.  Maria  Emma  Mejía  Vélez,  former 
Permanent  Representative  of  Colombia,  for 
their 
excellent  work,  creativity  and  dedication.  We  would 
also  like  to  welcome  the  newly  appointed  co-Chairs, 
Ms.  Sima  Sami  Bahous,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Jordan,  and  Mr.  Michal  Mlynár,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Slovakia,  and  wish  them  luck  in 
their deliberations. The ACT group remains committed 
to  strengthening  the  revitalization  process  and  looks 
forward to working with you, Madam President, during 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group’s  session  next  year.  In 
that  context,  we  would  like  to  offer  a  few  comments 
on  the  various  subjects  that  the  Working  Group  will 
be addressing.
Our  first  comment  concerns  the  cluster  dealing 
with  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  next 
Secretary-General  and  other  executive  heads,  as 
addressed  in  resolution  72/313.  After  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group’s  consensus  agreement  on  resolutions 
69/321  and  70/305,  which  dramatically  improved  the 
level  of  transparency  in  the  process  of  selecting  the 
Secretary-General,  the  natural  next  step  would  be 
to  consolidate  those  achievements  without  delay.  In 
that regard, the ACT group regrets that in the case of 
resolution 72/313, the Working Group was not able to 
reach  a  consensus  on  the  wording  with  regard  to  the 
lessons-learned process following the most recent and 
genuinely  historic  selection  of  the  Secretary-General. 
Nonetheless, we welcome the resolution’s inclusion of 
language on regional rotation and gender balance in the 
18-37787
9/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
course of the identification and appointment of the best 
candidate for the post of Secretary-General. Moreover, 
we note with appreciation the language on the timeline 
for the process of the selection and appointment of the 
Secretary-General, based on resolution 69/321 and other 
relevant resolutions, since that represents a step towards 
a more inclusive and transparent selection process.
nearly two thirds of Member States expect the Council 
to act to end and prevent atrocities, a testament to the 
power of the Assembly when it puts its political weight 
behind a cause. The ACT group encourages all States, 
members  and  non-members  of  the  Security  Council 
alike,  to  adhere  to  the  ACT  code  of  conduct  and  to 
implement it.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  cluster  dealing  with 
the  strengthening  of  the  accountability,  transparency 
and institutional memory of the Office of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  ACT  group  reiterates 
the importance of empowering the President’s Office, 
given the fact that the Assembly is the most inclusive 
and democratic organ of the Organization and that it is 
therefore crucial to provide the Office of its President 
with the independence and financial means it needs to 
carry out its responsibilities.
Thirdly, the ACT group also welcomes the fact that 
resolution 72/313 affirmed the principle that the Journal 
of  the  United  Nations  should  provide  an  overview  of 
all of the meetings taking place at the United Nations 
and  outlined  a  number  of  benchmarks  in  that  regard. 
That  serves  as  a  reminder,  considering  many  States’ 
perception that the Journal has become a less reliable 
and  user-friendly  source  of  information  over  time. 
In  our  view,  that  provision  still  needs  to  be  better 
implemented, and we look forward to working closely 
with the Secretariat to further improve the Journal.
Lastly, as a group composed of small and medium-
sized  States,  we  welcome  efforts  aimed  at  helping  to 
level  the  playing  field  in  competitive  elections,  while 
at the same time we are realistic about the limitations 
of  that  exercise.  The  main  challenge  is  undoubtedly 
the  elections  to  the  Security  Council.  The  Assembly 
should  offer  platforms  so  that  States  can  base  their 
decision-making  primarily  on  the  track  record  and 
commitment of candidates.
With respect to the Security Council, the Charter of 
the United Nations defines the ability to contribute to 
the maintenance of international peace and security as 
a criterion for membership. Of course, there are various 
ways  to  make  such  contributions.  For  example,  some 
ACT members have decided to support only candidates 
that  have  subscribed  to  the  ACT  code  of  conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes. A total of 118 
States, both large and small and from all regions of the 
world, already subscribe to the code. That means that 
In  conclusion,  the  ACT  group  is  looking  forward 
to  the  negotiations  next  year,  and  to  participating 
constructively  in  the  meetings  of  the  Working  Group 
and continuing to exchange views with other groups and 
delegations with a view to improving the functioning of 
the United Nations.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Christiane  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and 
its member States. The candidate countries Turkey, the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
this statement.
I thank you, Madam President, for convening today’s 
plenary  meeting.  I  would  first  like  to  congratulate 
Ms.  Sima  Sami  Bahous,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Jordan,  and  Mr.  Michal  Mlynár,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Slovakia,  on  their  appointment 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly 
during its seventy-third session. We wish them the very 
best and express our support for the Group’s upcoming 
work, with the hope that it will continue the progress 
made in the past sessions. We also express our sincere 
gratitude  to  the  previous  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group,  Mr.  Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent 
Representative of Croatia, and Ms. Maria Emma Mejía 
Vélez, former Permanent Representative of Colombia.
The recent resolutions on the revitalization of the 
work of the General Assembly have made a significant 
contribution 
to  a  more  efficient  and  effective 
Assembly.  The  adoption  in  September  of  resolution 
72/313,  however,  also  made  it  clear  that  consensus 
was unfortunately not possible on a number of issues, 
such  as  civil-society  participation,  the  rationalization 
of the Assembly’s agenda and the discussion of a code 
of conduct for all elections. On those and other issues 
10/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
the European Union will continue to be guided by the 
language agreed on in previous resolutions. However, 
we are also concerned about the stalemate that we faced 
during the previous session on many important issues, 
and  we  certainly  hope  that  this  session’s  negotiations 
will be more constructive.
A strong General Assembly is now more essential 
than  ever.  Support  for  multilateralism  and  the  global 
rules-based  world  order  is  not  a  given.  An  unceasing 
effort  to  find  new  and  creative  ways  to  work  is  vital 
if  the  international  community  is  to  achieve  a  more 
effective  delivery  of  mandates  and  more  sustainable 
use  of  resources.  The  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the  Assembly  is  therefore  clearly  fundamental  to  the 
overall reform of the United Nations. Focusing on the 
negotiations ahead of us, we believe that the emphasis of 
this session’s draft resolution should be on consolidating 
the work achieved so far, and we remain committed to 
working to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of 
the  working  methods  of  the  General  Assembly,  with 
a special focus on reducing overlap and duplication. I 
would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  the  European 
Union and its member States will continue to engage in 
a constructive manner in the proceedings of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group.
Mr. Rybakov (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): At the 
outset, I would like to say that all ceremonial protocol 
is hereby observed.
First of all, we align ourselves with the statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Jordan  and  Slovakia  on  their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. We firmly believe 
that  under  their  leadership  the  Working  Group  will 
once again be able to achieve substantive results in its 
work. We would also like to thank the representatives 
of  Colombia  and  Croatia  for  their  successful  work  in 
that regard.
Belarus  has  been  a  consistent  advocate  for  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly and 
its greater involvement in resolving the most pressing 
issues facing both the Organization and the international 
community as a whole. Every year we draw attention to 
the  importance  of  optimizing  the  Assembly’s  agenda, 
something that is in fact provided for in the Assembly’s 
rules of procedure. In the past few decades the volume 
of  work  in  our  Organization  has  grown  massively, 
which  in  turn  has  increased  the  number  of  items  on 
the Assembly’s agenda, the number of resolutions and 
therefore  of  instructions  to  the  Secretary-General  to 
prepare  reports  in  accordance  with  those  resolutions. 
Our  delegations,  especially  those  that  do  not  have 
large  human  resources  and  capacities,  are  simply  not 
in  a  position  to  process  the  volume  of  information, 
and  therefore  run  the  risk  of  missing  aspects  that  are 
important to them merely because of a simple lack of 
time and manpower.
In that connection, and in line with the guidelines 
for  rationalizing  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda,  we 
propose that the agenda be reviewed and the possibility 
considered  of  reducing  the  number  of  agenda  items 
by  eliminating  those  that  are  outdated,  along  with  a 
move  to  biennial  or  triennial  cycles  for  resolutions. 
Such  optimization  must  be  implemented  with  a  view 
to avoiding duplication in the work of the organs of the 
United Nations and the Assembly’s Main Committees, 
ensuring  a  shift  to  a  more  extended  work  cycle  and 
taking account of the views of all interested States as 
much as possible. Given the elements involved that task 
might  seem  unattainable,  but  the  Working  Group  has 
already  frequently  demonstrated  its  ability  to  make 
unusual and groundbreaking decisions.
The issue of the enormous workload that delegations 
deal with during the high-level segment of the General 
Assembly has become ever more problematic. We end up 
with a situation — and it gets worse every year — where 
Heads  of  delegations  are  literally  running  from  one 
event to another and sometimes still do not manage to 
speak at them. That diminishes the attendance at such 
events, reduces their practical value and has a negative 
impact  on  our  ability  to  hold  traditional  bilateral 
meetings on the margins of the session. This situation is 
not acceptable, particularly considering the Assembly’s 
shift towards a year-round working format, which has 
been  going  on  for  a  long  time  now.  In  this  situation, 
if  we  are  to  have  a  more  balanced  schedule  for  the 
high-level meetings throughout the year and adequate 
time  for  delegations,  particularly  where  they  involve 
high-level  representatives,  to  plan  their  participation 
in 
their  programmes, 
we  believe  it  is  essential  to  ensure  that  the  General 
Assembly’s  requirements  for  conducting  such  events 
are fully met, which presupposes adopting resolutions 
on the modalities and formats for the holding of high-
including  preparing 
them, 
18-37787
11/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
level  meetings.  If  not,  we  will  be  obliged  to  continue 
working in unpredictable conditions.
procedures 
administrative 
Another  important  area  in  the  Working  Group’s 
activity  is  the  modernization  of  the  Secretariat’s 
standard 
at  United 
Nations  Headquarters.  To  that  end,  two  years  ago  we 
established  a  mechanism  for  informal  cooperation 
between  Permanent  Missions  of  Member  States 
and  the  Secretariat.  Last  year  we  decided  that  the 
mechanism  should  switch  to  operating  on  a  regular 
basis. Regrettably, both this year and last, that dialogue 
was held only once. Holding such an informal dialogue 
once  a  year  cannot  be  called  regular.  The  experience 
with such dialogues demonstrates the huge interest in 
them  on  the  part  of  delegations  and  clearly  points  to 
the  deficiencies  in  the  work  of  the  Secretariat,  most 
of  which  could  be  addressed  without  Member  States 
having  to  resort  to  so-called  emergency  tools  in  the 
form of General Assembly resolutions.
A  ton  of  questions  have  accumulated,  starting 
with  technical  issues  such  as  the  institution  of  a  ban 
on  Member  States  parking  in  front  of  the  Secretariat 
building without telling them and limiting the time for 
protocol  services  to  receive  visitors,  and  ending  with 
the more serious problem in recent years represented by 
the Secretariat’s practice of permitting and supporting 
the  holding  of  events  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
that  clearly  target  other  Member  States  without  their 
consent. This kind of thing completely undermines the 
spirit  of  unity  and  cooperation  at  the  United  Nations 
and provokes animosity and confrontation.
We would also like to point out that as a founding 
Member State of the United Nations, Belarus has been a 
consistent advocate for multilateralism in international 
affairs.  However,  there  is  now  a  noticeable  negative 
trend  towards  funding  various  areas  of  the  work 
of  the  United  Nations  solely  from  extrabudgetary 
resources, which raises concerns about impartiality in 
financing the Organization’s work and is a threat to that 
fundamental principle. The fact that nearly 90 per cent 
of  the  funding  for  some  United  Nations  departments 
comes  from  Member  States’  voluntary  contributions 
and  not  from  the  regular  budget  of  the  Organization 
raises even more concerns. For example, that applies to 
the Office of Counter-Terrorism, whose work Belarus 
is perfectly happy with in principle, but for which the 
percentage  of  voluntary  funding  is  as  high  as  93  per 
cent. The United Nations should function based on its 
regular budget with contributions from United Nations 
Member States and should not depend on sponsorship.
The  General  Assembly  is  the  most  representative 
body  of  the  United  Nations.  For  it  to  be  able  to  work 
for  the  benefit  of  nations,  it  must  be  able  to  adapt  to 
new world realities, eliminating red tape and improving 
creativity and trust. In that connection, we express the 
hope that the newly appointed co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group will make more active use of its own 
existing  mechanism  to  address  the  tasks  involved  in 
revitalizing the work of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Suzil  (Maldives):  My  delegation  would  like 
to  congratulate  Ms.  Sima  Sami  Bahous,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jordan,  and  Mr.  Michal  Mlynár, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Slovakia,  on 
their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. We also want to 
thank Ambassadors María Emma Mejía Vélez, former 
Permanent Representative of Colombia, and Vladimir 
Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of  Croatia,  for 
their  dedication  and  leadership  in  co-chairing  the 
revitalization process at the previous session.
to 
incrementally 
the  enhancement  of 
The General Assembly remains the only universal 
body  and  the  most  important  forum  for  discussing 
the  most  pressing  challenges  facing  the  international 
community. The work of revitalization must therefore 
lead 
the 
Assembly’s ability to make a meaningful and positive 
difference  in  the  lives  of  people  in  our  countries.  To 
that end, we noted with appreciation the steps that were 
taken during the previous session. We saw significant 
improvements in the work of the President of the General 
Assembly,  and  we  are  now  seeing  more  transparency 
and  accountability,  including  in  the  Office  of  the 
President. We hope to see a reinvigorated series of the 
dialogues  held  by  the  President  last  year  that  brought 
together  small  groups  of  Permanent  Representatives 
and  made  space  for  genuine  dialogue  on  important 
issues of relevance to the General Assembly. We also 
encourage the regular meetings between the Presidents 
of the Economic and Social Council and the Security 
Council aimed at helping the Assembly to make more 
informed  decisions  and  necessary  adjustments  in 
shaping the work of the Assembly.
During  the  ongoing  seventy-third  session,  we 
would like to see the issue of election campaigns in the 
Assembly on the agenda of the Working Group. As we 
12/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
all know, campaigns have become more competitive and 
intense with each passing year. We have to find ways 
to ensure that elections are free and fair. We therefore 
believe that the same standards of transparency, fairness 
and  accountability  that  we  expect  in  our  domestic 
elections must be observed here at the United Nations.
The  other  aspect  that  the  Working  Group  should 
look into is the number of resolutions that the Assembly 
adopts  and  their  implementation.  Questions  must 
be  asked  about  the  usefulness  of  adopting  the  same 
resolutions  every  year  or  every  other  year,  and  the 
usefulness of adopting more than one resolution on the 
same subject. There is room there for the Assembly to 
improve its efficiency and effectiveness.
The Maldives believes in the promise of the United 
Nations  and  the  beauty  of  multilateralism.  We  are 
making  strides,  but  we  can  and  should  do  more.  We 
must ensure that every Member State in this Hall has an 
equal opportunity for its voice to be heard. We can and 
should  do  all  we  can  to  make  the  Organization  more 
effective and efficient, so that the work we do here has 
a real impact at home. We can and should look at the 
various  means  and  the  many  ways  in  which  we,  the 
international community, can make a difference.
Mrs.  Harqoos  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  we  should  like  to  thank  you, 
Madam  President,  for  holding  this  meeting  aimed 
at  promoting  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
rendering it more effective and efficient, in accordance 
with  resolution  72/313,  adopted  by  consensus  in 
September.  My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  to  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Croatia and Colombia for their efforts as co-Chairs of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the Work of the General Assembly during its previous 
session.  We  also  wish  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of Jordan and Slovakia every success as co-Chairs of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during  the  Assembly’s 
current session.
We align ourselves with the statement made by the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Republic  of  Algeria 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, 
and would like to make the following statement in our 
national capacity.
The United Arab Emirates welcomes the decision 
of the President of the General Assembly to make the 
topic of revitalizing the United Nations, including the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly,  a  high  priority,  one 
of the seven priorities defined for the Assembly at its 
seventy-third session.
In view of the significant increase in the activities 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  in  recent 
years, and because the United Arab Emirates believes 
in the importance of providing the necessary support to 
the Office of the President of the General Assembly so 
that the President can effectively carry out the mandate 
entrusted to her, my country has provided such support, 
including  by  seconding  one  of  our  Mission  staff 
members to contribute to the work of the Office during 
this  session.  We  look  forward  to  further  discussions 
on  additional  steps  to  be  taken  to  support  the  Office 
during this session.
We  were  pleased  to  see  that  many  important 
resolutions  adopted  at  previous  sessions  on 
the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
have  been  translated  into  concrete  action,  including 
the  holding  for  the  first  time  of  informal  interactive 
dialogues with candidates for the position of President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  That  contributed  to  the 
selection of the fourth woman to occupy that post. We 
look forward to similar practices in upcoming sessions.
We  also  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  ensure  gender  equality  across  the  United 
Nations  system.  Gender  equality  was  achieved  for 
the  first 
the  Secretary-General’s  Senior 
Management Group, and we encourage the Secretary-
General  to  continue  his  efforts  to  ensure  equitable 
geographical distribution and gender balance across the 
United Nations system.
time 
in 
In  view  of  that  significant  progress,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  underscores  the  need  to  continuously 
promote  the  role,  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the 
General  Assembly  by  streamlining  the  agenda  of  its 
Main  Committees,  improving  their  working  methods 
and promoting the role of the President of the General 
Assembly  and  the  President’s  Office.  That  includes 
strengthening the role of the General Assembly in the 
selection process of the Secretary-General.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  underscores  that  it 
is ready to cooperate and participate effectively in all 
efforts aimed at enhancing and revitalizing the role of 
the General Assembly.
Mr. Hunter (United States of America): The United 
States  appreciates  the  leadership  that  Ambassador 
Drobnjak  and  Ambassador  Mejía  Vélez  exhibited 
18-37787
13/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-second session. They facilitated a series of 
important  discussions  on  a  range  of  issues,  including 
the General Assembly’s working methods, the authority 
of the General Assembly, and the strengthening of the 
Office of the President of the General Assembly. Over 
the  past  10  months  they  led  the  Working  Group  with 
an  eye  towards  results,  and  because  of  that  we  find 
ourselves in a stronger position heading into 2019.
During  the  seventy-second  session,  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  continued  to  improve  the  efficiency 
and  effectiveness  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  look 
forward to future discussions on the conduct of election 
campaigns  with  the  goal  of  improving  the  standards 
of  transparency  and  equity,  especially  for  smaller 
States without the resources to run robust campaigns. 
We  believe  that  that  will  also  improve  the  quality  of 
elected members. We take that position as we note the 
success  of  the  interactive  dialogues  of  the  candidates 
for the post of Secretary-General and the President of 
the General Assembly, and we welcome the expansion 
of that practice into other election forums, such as the 
Human Rights Council.
During 
the  past  year, 
the  Secretary-General 
announced a number of key reforms across the United 
Nations  system  that  the  General  Assembly  has  since 
unanimously  endorsed,  including  the  restructuring  of 
the  peace  and  security  pillar  of  the  United  Nations, 
a  new  management  architecture  focused  on  greater 
effectiveness  and  accountability,  and  United  Nations 
development  system  improvements.  Those  reforms 
aim  to  contribute  to  greater  efficiency,  transparency 
and  the  responsible  use  of  resources.  In  that  regard, 
the  Secretary-General  has  set  an  example  for  our 
delegations  as  we  contribute  now  to  the  General 
Assembly  revitalization  project.  Indeed,  many  of  the 
goals  that  the  Secretary-General  has  been  advancing 
are  directly  relevant  to  our  work.  Resolution  72/313, 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  on  17  September, 
endorses the goal of improving the General Assembly’s 
efficiency, streamlining its agenda and reducing overlap 
across the six Main Committees.
As  a  means  of  further  increasing  efficiency,  the 
United  States  continues  to  support  the  move  towards 
a  biennial  process  for  considering  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  We  think  that  rather  than  devoting  so 
many hours to negotiating a draft resolution, we should 
instead  be  actually  implementing  it.  That  shift  would 
bring us closer to our goal of achieving a more effective 
and efficient General Assembly. We urge the Working 
Group to seriously consider that proposal.
We  will  continue  to  watch  for  suggestions  or 
recommendations that contain financial implications as 
well. The United States remains opposed to any moves 
that increase budgetary costs to the United Nations and 
ultimately to Member States. That is informed by our 
strong  commitment  to  the  responsible  stewardship  of 
United States taxpayer dollars and a desire to maintain 
zero nominal growth in United Nations budgets.
We  would  also  reiterate  that  the  Working  Group 
must  remain  focused  on  the  main  objective  that  the 
General  Assembly  has  entrusted  to  us,  namely,  to 
strengthen the work of the General Assembly. We will 
continue  to  oppose  efforts  to  redirect  or  markedly 
expand the scope of the Group’s work.
thanks 
delegates 
who  contributed 
this  past  year’s  efforts  and 
accomplishments, and we look forward to working with 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during  the  seventy-third 
session of the General Assembly.
The  United  States 
to 
all 
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  I  thank  you,  Madam 
President, for being here today and for setting the tone 
for the debate on the important issue of revitalizing the 
General Assembly.
India aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries.  We  would  like  to  express 
our  appreciation  to  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Croatia  and  Colombia  for  ably  steering  the  work 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  seventy-
second  session,  and  to  congratulate  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Jordan and the Slovak Republic on 
their appointment as co-Chairs for the current session. 
My  delegation  will  give  them  its  full  support  for  a 
productive outcome.
The  legitimacy  of  the  General  Assembly  stems 
from  its  universality.  It  is  our  most  inclusive  forum, 
where States can come together on a basis of sovereign 
equality  to  share  burdens,  address  common  problems 
and  take  advantage  of  common  opportunities.  The 
principal  purpose  of  the  General  Assembly  is  not  to 
usurp  the  role  of  sovereign  States  but  to  enable  all 
States to serve their peoples better by working together. 
No  other  global  institution  can  match  the  Assembly’s 
14/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
representative  character  and  the  credibility  that  it 
derives from such representativeness.
Let  us  not  forget  that  at  the  outset,  the  General 
Assembly  demonstrated  leadership  in  setting  the 
global agenda while dealing with complex challenges. 
The  first  issue  that  the  General  Assembly  addressed 
at  its  first  session  in  January  1946  was  related  to  the 
problems  raised  by  the  discovery  of  atomic  energy. 
The first resolution that the General Assembly adopted 
(resolution  1(I)),  Madam  President,  on  the  basis  of 
the  report  submitted  by  your  compatriot,  Mr.  Viteri 
Lafronte  of  Ecuador,  called  for  a  commission  to 
make  recommendations,  among  other 
things,  for 
the  elimination  from  national  armaments  of  atomic 
weapons  and  all  other  major  weapons  adaptable  to 
mass destruction.
That  same  year,  1946,  the  General  Assembly, 
acting on the basis of an initiative put forward by my 
country,  India,  started  addressing  the  global  struggle 
for  the  equality  of  opportunity  for  all  races  in  order 
to  counter  the  doctrine  of  racial  discrimination  then 
germinating in South Africa. Those examples testify to 
the ambition and far-sighted nature of the deliberations 
of the General Assembly, years before any other organ 
of the United Nations started tackling them. Since that 
formative  period,  the  General  Assembly  can  count 
many  agenda-setting  achievements  on  issues  ranging 
from  sustainable  development  to  climate  change, 
oceans, global health and migration.
However, we have to acknowledge that our collective 
record as the General Assembly is mixed. Just as generals 
too often refight their previous wars, we diplomats find 
ourselves  struggling  to  overcome  our  legacy  issues, 
even as the variety and intricacy of new demands for 
international  cooperation  have  expanded.  Today  there 
is a proliferation of new transnational threats, such as 
terrorism, which requires comprehensive cooperation; 
accelerating 
technological  change,  which  requires 
broad  norm-setting;  and  worsening  environmental 
degradation, which requires immediate climate action. 
The challenges we face have become stark. Yet we have 
tended to muddle along, holding meetings, taking some 
minor  stabs  at  enhancing  international  cooperation  at 
the margins and becoming guardians of the status quo. 
Our  inertia  is  considerable,  even  when  it  is  clear  that 
collective action is required. We steer clear of action, 
pleading that consensus is required in order for change 
to occur.
Global  cooperation  and  integration  have  been 
critical to the impressive expansion of well-being and 
opportunities  that  we  have  witnessed  over  the  past 
70  years.  Proliferating  global  problems  demand  new 
narratives. If the General Assembly is not delivering all 
that we want, the solution is not to give up on it. Rather 
we must make it deliver results for today.
The  General  Assembly  is  empowered  to  discuss 
any  matter  within  the  scope  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  thus  assuming  the  role  of  the  global 
conscience,  where  public  opinion  is  focused  as  an 
effective force. That opens a vast range of opportunities 
for  all  of  us.  The  General  Assembly  provides  venues 
for addressing issues. It provides platforms for agreeing 
on  the  common  rules  of  the  game,  and  channels  for 
exchanging  ideas,  experiences  and  practices  so  that 
countries can learn from one another. Decision-making 
in the General Assembly is not a threat to sovereignty. 
It  is  an  expression  of  sovereign  equality  and  an 
opportunity for all to influence global problem-solving.
The  world  is  awash  in  new  challenges.  However, 
in  order  to  make  an  effective  difference,  we  must 
undertake a new journey that should begin soon. Less 
than two years from now, we will celebrate the seventy-
fifth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  Perhaps  that 
will  provide  all  of  us  with  an  opportunity  that  can 
catalyse  our  efforts  to  rejuvenate  and  revitalize  the 
Organization.  The  agenda  for  that  revitalization  must 
be  broad  and  inclusive,  as  well  as  transformative  and 
imbued  with  the  objective  of  breathing  new  life  into 
the  United  Nations.  The  General  Assembly,  with  its 
universal membership, can be a precious asset in that 
effort  for  change.  As  one  of  modern  India’s  leading 
figures, Swami Vivekananda, once said,
“We reap what we sow. We are the makers of our 
own fate. The wind is blowing; those vessels whose 
sails are unfurled catch it, and go forward on their 
way, but those which have their sails furled do not 
catch the wind.”
The revitalization agenda represents a challenge for 
diplomacy. However, it is a challenge worth taking up if 
we want to maximize our prospects for a peaceful and 
prosperous  twenty-first  century.  In  that  effort,  India 
stands ready to provide constructive support.
Ms. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  Cuban  delegation  associates 
the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
itself  with 
18-37787
15/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
We would like to take this opportunity to express 
our  appreciation  to  Ambassadors Vladimir  Drobnjak 
of Croatia and María Emma Mejía Vélez of Colombia, 
who served as co-Chairs of the negotiation process on 
revitalization  during  the  seventy-second  session.  We 
also welcome the appointment of the Ambassadors of 
Jordan and Slovakia as co-Chairs of the process for the 
2019 period. We wish them success in their work and 
pledge to them the full support of the Cuban delegation.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
a  critical  process  within  the  broader  reform  of  the 
United Nations. It must consolidate the democratic and 
participatory character of the Assembly through the full 
exercise of the powers enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  Ensuring  full  respect  for  the  Charter 
and the rules of procedure of the General Assembly and 
other organs is a priority for Cuba. In accordance with 
those governing documents, our country has therefore 
participated  in  the  work  of  the  Organization  since  its 
founding on 24 October 1945.
Ensuring  the  sustainability  of  the  international 
community’s  trust  in  the  United  Nations  and  the 
sustainability  of  its  legitimacy  also  requires  the 
Organization to truly respond to the collective interests 
of  its  Members,  especially  the  great  majority  of  its 
Member  States.  The  international  community  has 
witnessed 
resolutions 
adopted  by 
the  General  Assembly  on  numerous 
occasions, as well as a lack of consensus on decisions 
on issues that have long afflicted our people. Cuba calls 
on all Member States to demonstrate their political will 
and commitment to multilateralism.
the  non-implementation  of 
It  is  an  obligation  both  for  Member  States  and 
for  the  Secretariat  itself  to  respect  the  mandates 
established in our resolutions, as well as the regulations 
and  guidelines  that  govern  the  functioning  of  the 
Organization, to whose budget we all contribute based 
on the principle of the capacity to pay. We emphatically 
reject  the  manipulation,  blackmail  and  pressure  that 
some  have  exerted  on  the  Secretariat,  in  violation  of 
United Nations procedures.
In  that  regard,  we  note  that  in  recent  years,  the 
annual  resolution  on  the  planning  of  conferences, 
adopted  by  consensus  in  the  General  Assembly,  has 
called on the Secretary-General and Member States to 
comply with the guidelines and procedures set forth in 
Administrative  Instruction  ST/AI/416  of  April  1996, 
which regulates the authorization of the use of United 
Nations  premises  for  meetings,  conferences,  special 
events  and  exhibits.  The  resolution  also  provides  that 
such meetings, conferences, special events and exhibits 
must be consistent with the purposes and principles of 
the United Nations.
We  firmly  reject  the  use  of  the  Organization’s 
premises  to  generate  and  promote  campaigns  against 
its own Member States, which constitutes an flagrant 
violation not only of the resolutions and norms of the 
United Nations but also of the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter.  We  reiterate  that  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
Secretariat  to  ensure  that  the  working  procedures 
and 
regulations 
and  administrative  guidelines  are  fully  respected. 
That  endeavour  must  be  marked  by  impartiality, 
professionalism  and  responsibility,  regardless  of  any 
pressure to do otherwise. We hope that that issue will 
be discussed next year during the revitalization process 
and that appropriate measures will be taken within that 
framework to prevent such violations.
rules  contained 
in 
resolutions, 
Discussions  on  certain  proposals  within 
the 
framework  of  the  revitalization  process  sometimes 
undermine  previous  debates  and  results  from  other 
forums that are more appropriate and relevant venues 
for holding such discussions. In that regard, we reiterate 
that  the  revitalization  process  should  not  change  the 
procedure  for  selecting  candidates.  Those  procedures 
are  outlined  in  the  resolutions  that  gave  rise  to  the 
various bodies concerned and in the rules of the General 
Assembly. Nor does it fall to the revitalization process 
to pre-empt Member support for a particular candidate 
or to question or hinder the nomination of a candidate 
through selective and discriminatory criteria.
Cuba stresses the importance of striking the right 
balance  among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations, in accordance with the Charter, and of stopping 
the  growing  and  dangerous  tendency  of  the  Security 
Council to encroach on the Assembly’s scope of work, 
which is a violation of the Organization’s procedures.
We  hope  that  as  a  result  of  the  revitalization 
process,  the  interaction  between  the  Secretariat  and 
the General Assembly will be strengthened so that the 
Secretariat  can  respond  more  effectively  to  mandates 
set  by  Member  States.  It  is  impossible  to  have  an 
Organization  that  responds  effectively  to  the  modern 
system of international relations without reforming the 
Security Council and making the General Assembly the 
centre of multilateral debate and work.
16/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  my  delegation’s  readiness 
to  continue  to  support  the  process  of  revitalizing  the 
General Assembly so as to bolster its democratic and 
participatory character.
Mr.  Polyanskiy 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  We  welcome  the  convening  of  today’s 
General  Assembly  meeting  on  the  implementation  of 
United Nations resolutions and the revitalization of the 
work of the General Assembly.
(Russian  Federation) 
We  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Jordan  and  Slovakia  on  their 
appointment to co-chair the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  wish 
them every success. We note the work of the previous 
co-Chairs,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Croatia 
and Colombia, during the seventy-second session. The 
negotiations that eventually culminated in the General 
Assembly’s  adoption  on  17  September  of  resolution 
72/313  were  not  easy.  They  demonstrated  once  again 
that  the  successful  revitalization  of  the  Assembly’s 
work,  which  is  a  job  shared  by  all  Member  States,  is 
possible only when the process enjoys full consensus-
based support. Our understanding of that enabled us to 
arrive at a thoughtful and balanced text. The results of 
the upcoming round of negotiations will also depend on 
States’ willingness to listen to one another.
The  Russian  delegation  is  ready  to  continue  to 
participate  constructively  in  the  efforts  to  revitalize 
the General Assembly. However, those efforts must be 
depoliticized  and  primarily  focused  on  increasing  the 
Assembly’s effectiveness. That aim can to a great extent 
be achieved by further refining the Assembly’s working 
methods and streamlining its still overburdened agenda. 
In particular, it is essential to continue efforts to move 
some of the Assembly’s agenda items to consideration 
on  a  biennial  or  triennial  basis  and  remove  outdated 
ones.
We  also  support  initiatives  to  lighten  the  load  of 
the high-level week of the general debate. While they 
are in New York, the Heads of State and Government 
and Foreign Ministers already have a tight schedule. It 
makes  sense  to  limit  the  number  of  high-level  events 
during  that  time.  They  can  be  evenly  distributed 
throughout  the  work  of  the  entire  session.  However, 
it  is  certainly  important  to  ensure  that  such  changes 
take  the  interests  of  all  Member  States  into  account. 
We  also  believe  that  any  initiatives  should  be  based 
on  strict  compliance  with  the  system  for  distributing 
prerogatives among the main United Nations bodies, as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
The Security Council is often criticized for being 
seen  as  infringing  on  the  authority  of  other  United 
Nations  organs,  and  we  share  that  concern.  Our 
colleagues  on  the  Council  know  that  we  are  cautious 
about considering thematic topics in the Council. And 
recently the numbers of such meetings have increased, 
through no fault of ours. In that regard, we again call 
on those who generate such initiatives to consider what 
the  Council  can  actually  achieve  on  such  issues.  The 
importance of one or another topic should not be based 
on whether or not it is discussed in the Council. That is 
the wrong approach.
In  the  past  few  years,  much  attention  has  been 
paid  to  questions  of  increasing  the  transparency  and 
democracy of the process for selecting and electing the 
Secretary-General. We are willing to continue working 
on  a  sensible  optimization  of  the  existing  system. 
However, we believe that ideas in this area require careful 
study, and particularly with regard to strict compliance 
with the Charter of the United Nations, in accordance 
with  which  the  Secretary-General  is  appointed  by 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
Security  Council.  We  should  also  not  forget  that  the 
main task is to elect the best candidate for the position 
of  Secretary-General.  Excessive  efforts  to  codify  the 
procedure are fraught with undesirable consequences.
As for the issue of the implementation of General 
Assembly  resolutions,  the  problem  here  seems  to  be 
not  so  much  a  lack  of  political  will.  One  of  the  most 
important  factors  is  the  feasibility  level  of  those 
resolutions.  Before  proposing  a  draft  resolution,  it 
is  important  to  ask  how  implementable  it  would  be 
if  it  were  adopted.  We  urge  everyone  to  refrain  from 
politicized,  clearly  unrealizable  initiatives  that  could 
divide rather than unite the United Nations membership. 
There is no doubt that resolutions that are adopted by 
an  overwhelming  majority  of  votes,  and  ideally  by 
consensus,  have  a  better  chance  of  becoming  reality. 
Needless to say, that demands work, diplomatic artistry 
and  a  willingness  to  compromise.  Unfortunately,  the 
past year has shown that not everyone shares such sober 
approaches.  we  therefore  of  course  should  not  expect 
the  implementation  of  resolutions  that  are  focused  on 
dubious and short-term gains.
18-37787
17/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
We  wish  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  every  success  and  are  ready  to  work  closely 
with them.
Mr.  Kyslytsya  (Ukraine)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the outset, Madam President, I would like to reaffirm 
my  delegation’s  full  support  to  your  comprehensive 
approach to conducting the business of the Assembly. 
I  would  also  like  to  join  others  in  expressing  our 
sincere thanks to the previous co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the 
General Assembly, Mr. Vladimir Drobnjak, Permanent 
Representative of Croatia, and Ms. María Emma Mejía 
Vélez, former Permanent Representative of Colombia, 
for the work they accomplished. I wish the Permanent 
Representatives of Jordan and Slovakia, Ms. Sima Sami 
Bahous  and  Mr.  Michal  Mlynár,  every  success  as  the 
new co-Chairs and continued progress in the work of 
this session.
We fully share the vision outlined in the statement 
by  the  observer  of  the  European  Union  on  the  issues 
under  consideration  today.  In  my  national  capacity, 
I  would  like  to  highlight  two  points  that  we  consider 
significant.
The  first  is  strengthening  the  authority  of  the 
General  Assembly.  As  Members  have  stated  on 
numerous  occasions,  we  believe  that  as  the  main 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations, the General Assembly is bound by 
the Charter of the United Nations to discuss any matter 
relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security.
However,  at  the  beginning  of  the  current  session, 
we witnessed an attempt to prevent the Assembly from 
considering  a  problem  raised  by  a  Member  under  its 
special authority. I am referring to Ukraine’s initiative 
with regard to a new agenda item entitled “The situation 
in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine”. The 
recorded vote on incorporating the topic into the agenda 
clearly showed the existence of a marginal group that 
attempted  to  undermine  the  specific  responsibility  of 
the  General  Assembly  under  pressure  from  Russia.  I 
express my sincere thanks to all those who supported 
the introduction of the item on the agenda.
It is not surprising that the same controversy that 
arose in connection with the inclusion of the item on the 
Assembly’s agenda was also seen in connection with the 
responsibility-to-protect initiative, which Ukraine also 
supports. How can the Assembly and the Organization of 
which it is a constituent part be considered effective and 
capable of dealing with today’s challenges in the face of 
persistent ongoing attempts to block the consideration 
of  pressing  problems,  as  opposed  to  the  many  static 
situations that are considered almost automatically year 
after year, with no significant change in the outcome?
Russia,  as  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council, constantly abuses its powers there. In fact, it 
was trying to replicate its destructive Council practices 
in the Assembly and in the General Committee on the 
pretext of defending the practice of consensus, which is 
non-existent. That permanent member follows the same 
pattern of behaviour in the Security Council, where it 
cares  nothing  for  the  credibility  of  the  Organization 
and only for its ambitions for revenge.
At the end of October, Council members expressed 
their deep concern about the illegal preparations for the 
so-called elections in the temporarily occupied territory 
of  Donbas  in  Ukraine  (see  S/PV.8386).  And  what  did 
we  see  less  than  two  weeks  later?  In  violation  of  the 
Minsk agreements and of Security Council resolution 
2202  (2015),  the  so-called  elections,  orchestrated  by 
the  occupying  Power,  took  place  last  Sunday.  As  was 
to be expected, Russia seemed to be the only one that 
recognized the results, thereby demonstrating its true 
objective of masking the crimes committed in Ukraine.
My  second  point  is  about  the  implementation 
of  United  Nations  resolutions.  The  scope  of  their 
implementation  remains  constrained  by  the  degree 
to  which  countries  are  willing  to  comply  with  them. 
That selective mode of implementation undermines the 
ability of the United Nations to make a real difference 
in various situations on the ground.
the  sovereignty,  political 
territorial 
integrity  of  Ukraine  within 
Through its adoption in 2014 of resolution 68/262, 
its  commitment 
the  General  Assembly  affirmed 
independence,  unity 
to 
and 
its 
internationally recognized borders. Since then, in two 
subsequent  resolutions  —  71/205  in  2016  and  72/190 
in 2017 — on the human rights situation in Ukraine’s 
Crimean peninsula, the Assembly has condemned the 
temporary occupation of that part of Ukraine’s territory.
All those resolutions, supported by an overwhelming 
majority of Member States, sent a clear message from 
the United Nations membership to the aggressor State 
that  the  Organization  is  ready  to  defend  its  values. 
However, those decisions have yet to be implemented. 
The world continues to witness brutal violations of the 
18/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  since  the  foreign  military  aggression  against 
Ukraine  and  the  temporary  occupation  of  parts  of  its 
territory persist.
It is also indisputable that the Secretariat and all of 
the agencies and bodies of the United Nations system 
must comply with the letter and spirit of the resolutions 
adopted by the Assembly in their daily practice, despite 
the  pressure  and  manipulations  on  the  part  of  the 
aggressor State.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that although 
our  joint  efforts  for  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly have already produced tangible results, there 
is  still  ample  room  for  this  body  and  its  decisions  to 
become  more  effective  and  for  the  United  Nations  to 
become more relevant for everyone.
Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
thanks  you,  Madam  President,  for  convening  today’s 
debate on this topic.
Over  the  more  than  70  years  of  its  history,  the 
United  Nations  has  made  an  outstanding  contribution 
to international peace and stability and the progress of 
human society. The purposes and principles enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations have become the 
basic  norms  governing  international  relations  and 
multilateralism, in terms of both ideology and practice, 
and  have  brought  tangible  benefits  to  the  peoples  of 
the  world.  Now,  however,  the  world  is  confronted 
with  new  and  emerging  challenges.  Traditional  and 
non-traditional  security  issues  are  intertwined  in 
a  complex  conundrum.  The  international  security 
situation  is  of  great  concern.  International  rules 
are  under  attack,  and  multilateral  mechanisms  are 
being  challenged.  More  than  ever,  our  world  needs 
multilateralism and a stronger United Nations.
The international community generally looks to the 
United  Nations  to  play  a  greater  role  in  safeguarding 
world  peace,  promoting  common  development, 
advancing  international  cooperation  and  upholding 
multilateralism.  On  9  November,  in  its  capacity  as 
President  of  the  Security  Council,  China  convened 
an  open  debate  on  this  theme  entitled  “Maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security:  strengthening 
multilateralism  and  the  role  of  the  United  Nations” 
(see  S/PV.8395).  Representatives  of  more  than  70 
countries and international organizations took the floor 
and  voiced  a  strong  message  about  the  importance 
of  strengthening  multilateralism  and  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations,  reaffirming  our  obligation  to  uphold 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations, steadfastly embrace multilateralism, maintain 
the rules-based international order and jointly respond 
to global challenges.
The General Assembly is the principal organ of the 
United Nations under the Charter. It is also the primary 
deliberative  organ  when  it  comes  to  policies.  Its 
revitalization is a matter where the vital interests of all 
Member States are at stake and that has important and 
far-reaching  implications  for  enhancing  the  authority 
and  credibility  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  the  desire 
of  the  general  membership,  especially  the  developing 
countries,  that  the  General  Assembly  should  improve 
its  work  on  an  ongoing  basis  and  fully  meet  its 
responsibilities under the Charter.
In the light of the evolving international situation, 
as well as the significant challenges facing the United 
Nations on various fronts, the Assembly should focus 
on reviewing and responding to major issues of general 
concern to Member States, especially those that affect 
the  vital  interests  of  developing  countries.  It  should 
strengthen  its  focus  and  input  on  development  issues 
and  play  a  greater  role  in  promoting  international 
development cooperation. It should also strengthen its 
collaboration with the Security Council, the Economic 
and  Social  Council  and  other  bodies,  with  a  proper 
division  of  labour  that  enables  them  to  fully  leverage 
their  respective  advantages.  On  issues  related  to  the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security, 
coordination  and  cooperation  between  the  Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  should  be  strengthened,  in 
accordance with the Charter.
China  appreciates  the  initiative  of  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  to  prioritize, 
among  other  things,  the  revitalization  of  the  United 
Nations, the rights of persons with disabilities, gender 
equality,  migrants  and  refugees,  the  environment, 
decent  work  and  youth  and  peace  and  security.  The 
revitalization of the work of the Assembly is an important 
dimension  of  that  priority  agenda.  We  encourage  the 
general membership of the United Nations to work as 
one in order to advance the revitalization of the General 
Assembly’s work.
China  supports  the  General  Assembly  in  its 
efforts  to  improve  its  working  methods,  streamline 
decision-making  processes  and  increase  efficiency. 
18-37787
19/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
Efforts  should  be  focused  on  improving  the  quality 
of  documents  and  reports  by  making  their  content 
more concise and their analyses and recommendations 
better  targeted  so  that  they  are  more  practical  and 
action-oriented.  Member  States  should  respect  the 
sanctity  of  Assembly  resolutions  and  ensure  their 
effective 
the 
Assembly’s  authority.  A  well-functioning  Office  of 
the President of the General Assembly is an important 
enabler for the smooth running of the General Assembly. 
China  supports  increasing  the  Office’s  human  and 
financial  resources  so  that  it  can  more  effectively 
discharge its mandated functions.
implementation  so  as 
to  safeguard 
The  broad  membership  of  the  Organization  has 
high expectations for the revitalization of the General 
Assembly’s  work.  All  Member  States  should  make 
concrete  efforts  to  implement  the  resolutions  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  make 
steady  progress  with  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly under the framework of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly,  guided  by  the  principles  of  democratic 
consultations,  step-by-step  progress  and  tackling  the 
easiest tasks first.
the 
appointment  by 
China  welcomes 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Jordan  and  Slovakia  to  the  United 
Nations  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group. 
We  are  ready  to  lend  them  our  active  support  to  help 
achieve progress on this important agenda item during 
this  session  and  make  fresh  contributions  to  the 
protection of multilateralism and our common pursuit 
of peace and development.
Mr.  Djani  (Indonesia):  My  delegation  joins  other 
delegations  in  thanking  you,  Madam  President,  for 
convening  this  important  joint  debate,  as  well  as  for 
the  many  important  points  that  you  made  in  your 
opening  statement.  Needless  to  say,  we  would  also 
like to congratulate the incoming co-Chairs of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of  the  General  Assembly,  our  colleagues  from  Jordan 
and  Slovakia.  We  want  to  assure  them  of  Indonesia’s 
continued  and  active  contribution  to  efforts  to  obtain 
productive results in the Working Group. I also thank 
their  predecessors,  our  colleagues  from  Croatia  and 
Colombia, for their important stewardship.
Indonesia  would  like  to  associate  itself  with 
the  statements  made  on  behalf  of  the  Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations.
Since  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
became a distinct agenda item in 1991, and following the 
2005 World Summit, when the Ad Hoc Working Group 
was  formed,  there  has  been  progress  on  numerous 
fronts. But much remains to be done if we are to ensure 
that our work is relevant. From streamlining the agenda 
to structuring the four clusters in the Ad Hoc Working 
Group and convening high-level deliberations on crucial 
global peace, security and development challenges, the 
General  Assembly  has  gained  increasing  prominence 
and effect.
Many of the challenges confronting our world today 
are of a multidimensional and interconnected nature and 
require an integrated response. Those challenges can be 
addressed  only  if  States  are  willing  to  work  together 
and solve those issues accordingly. The United Nations 
is  the  ultimate  global  institution  for  multilateralism, 
where nations large and small interact with each other 
on a basis of sovereign equality. Indonesia urges all to 
play their role fully in order to ensure that the Assembly 
and  other  United  Nations  entities  can  successfully 
comply with their mandates.
There is no better platform to deal with the gamut 
of  global  issues  than  the  General  Assembly,  for  it 
is  unique  in  representing  the  entirety  of  the  United 
Nations membership with its rich insights and collective 
wisdom.  When  we  say  that  we  are  committed  to 
multilateralism, we have an obligation to revitalize and 
make this organ efficient, effective and adapted to the 
challenges of the new millennium. Indonesia supports 
practical efforts that can revitalize the Assembly as the 
chief  United  Nations  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative  organ,  properly  geared  and  enabled  to 
meet the expectations of global citizens today.
I will not go into detail on Indonesia’s position on 
the four thematic clusters, as my delegation will present 
its  views  in  the  various  cluster  meetings  ahead.  For 
now, we would like to suggest the following additional 
points on the way forward as we seek to strengthen our 
common endeavour to make the Assembly more robust.
First, we must all ensure the full implementation of 
resolution 69/321. In that context, we must do our part 
to ensure that the General Assembly continues to play 
a leading role in the selection and appointment process 
of  the  Secretary-General.  The  practices  and  lessons 
from the previous experience, while they are fresh in 
20/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
our  memory,  should  be  recorded  in  a  lessons-learned 
document,  which  would  be  a  good  reference  source 
for future selection processes and appointments of the 
Secretary-General.
Furthermore,  the  resolution  enabled  the  election 
processes for the non-permanent Security Council seats 
and the members of the Economic and Social Council 
to begin six months in advance. New ground was also 
broken  regarding  transparency  and  accountability  in 
the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly. 
We all look forward to strengthening that Office.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  Assembly’s  working 
methods,  Indonesia  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  and  its  Main  Committees  streamline  their 
agendas and focus on making a reality of commitments 
for  meaningful  results  on  the  ground.  We  salute 
Guyana for taking the lead. We should also streamline 
the  numbers  of  high-level  meetings  and  focus  more 
on 
implementation  of  commitments  already 
made. Indonesia further recommends that the General 
Assembly  should  introduce  appropriate  measures  to 
enhance  public  awareness  of  its  roles  and  activities, 
and  we  encourage  improved  media  reporting  of  the 
Assembly’s work.
the 
the  Security  Council, 
Thirdly,  the  General  Assembly  should  strengthen 
its  collaboration  with 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  specialized 
agencies. On issues of common interest, such as peace 
and security, human rights and economic development, 
consultations  between  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  regional  organizations  should  be  strengthened. 
Regional organizations can contribute positively to the 
work of the Assembly and the United Nations at large.
numerous 
resolutions  that  fall  under  agenda  item  128,  entitled 
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional 
and  other  organizations”,  could  more  appropriately 
include discussion of those issues of common interest. 
Furthermore, such resolutions should be implementable, 
action-oriented  and  aim  for  concrete  results  on 
the ground.
recommends 
Indonesia 
that 
the 
Before coming here today, I looked at the Charter 
of the United Nations, particularly Chapter IV on the 
General  Assembly,  because  I  wanted  to  find  out  how 
the  situations  in  1945  and  today  differ.  What  is  clear 
is  in  Article  9,  paragraph  2,  which  says  that  “Each 
Member shall have not more than five representatives 
in the General Assembly”. We have made progress so 
far, at least by having an extra seat in this Hall for each 
delegation,  thereby  making  it  six  for  each  country. 
Now  my  question  is:  Is  that  enough?  Should  we  not 
do more to revitalize the work of the Assembly? I say 
more has to be done. We are approaching 75 years of 
the  existence  of  the  United  Nations,  and  if  we  could 
revitalize the General Assembly and other organs so as 
to better respond to the wishes of their constituents, the 
peoples of the world, that would be a good target date 
and birthday present for the United Nations.
Indonesia,  for  its  part,  is  determined  to  continue 
playing its role in the Working Group and other forums 
to bolster the General Assembly so that the Assembly 
can  fully  demonstrate  that  it  is  the  true  universal 
parliament of nations.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  congratulate  Ambassadors 
Sima  Sami  Bahous,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jordan, and Michal Mlynár, Permanent Representative 
of Slovakia, on their appointment as co-Chairs of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly. We would like to assure 
them  of  our  full  support  and  our  willingness  to  work 
with them during the Working Group meetings to come. 
We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
the previous co-Chairs and the Secretariat, especially 
the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management, for their tireless efforts and professional 
and rigorous support throughout our work.
My delegation takes note of the tangible progress 
made in revitalizing the work of the General Assembly. 
We  welcome  the  positive  developments  in  the  efforts 
of the Working Group during the previous session and 
call  for  continuing  and  consolidating  what  we  have 
achieved.  Despite  the  progress  made,  the  process  to 
revitalize  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  requires 
the commitment of all Member States, as well as real 
political will, so that multilateralism can bear fruit and 
achieve its noble goals.
In 
to  emphasize 
that  regard,  we  want 
the 
importance  of  dialogue  in  a  spirit  of  compromise  so 
that  we  can  contribute  jointly  to  improving  our  work 
within  the  General  Assembly,  and  the  Organization 
more broadly. With the tangible progress that we have 
made, we welcome the laudable efforts undertaken by 
the  Secretary-General  to  achieve  gender  equality  and 
the  equitable  geographical  representation  of  high-
ranking  positions,  and  we  especially  welcome  the 
18-37787
21/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
implementation  of  his  strategy  on  gender  equality, 
which is applicable to the entire United Nation system.
The  revitalization  process  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly  is  a  key  part  of  the  reform  of  the 
Organization.  We  believe  that  the  important  reforms 
that  the  Secretary-General  has  introduced  since  he 
assumed  the  leadership  of  our  Organization  will 
contribute broadly to our efforts to revitalize the work 
of  the  General  Assembly.  Preserving  an  institutional 
balance  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the  other 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  is  vital  if  we  want  to 
improve its effectiveness and efficiency and enable it to 
fulfil the mandate it has been assigned.
We also want to recall the importance of respect by 
both  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council 
for the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations 
on their respective functions and powers. As such, we 
must  fully  implement  Article  12,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
Charter, which states,
“While  the  Security  Council  is  exercising  in 
respect  of  any  dispute  or  situation  the  functions 
assigned  to  it  in  the  present  Charter,  the  General 
Assembly  shall  not  make  any  recommendation 
with regard to that dispute or situation”.
We  also  reiterate 
the  need  for  a  balanced 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  Main  Committees  in 
order  to  achieve  long-term  outcomes  for  the  process 
as a whole. In past years we have seen an exponential 
increase in the number of draft resolutions submitted to 
the General Assembly. In that regard, we believe that 
greater efforts should be made to ensure that multiple 
resolutions  are  consolidated  and  encourage 
their 
submission only every two or even three years, where 
possible. It is equally important to continue to work to 
improve synergies and coherence between tthe various 
Committees’  agenda 
items.  Similarly,  we  should 
ensure that the Assembly’s agenda is aligned with the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. That is an 
absolute necessity that must be promoted.
Finally, in order for the role of the President of the 
General Assembly, as mandated under the Charter, to 
be  carried  out  effectively  and  efficiently  and  for  the 
majority  of  the  expenses  incurred  by  the  President  to 
no  longer  be  borne  by  his  or  her  country  of  origin, 
the  President  must  be  provided  with  the  necessary 
resources,  which  must  come  not  only  in  the  form  of 
trust funds and voluntary contributions from Member 
States, but also, in particular, as adequate funding from 
the regular budget.
Mr. Amayo (Kenya): Let me begin by commending 
you, Madam President, for the able manner in which you 
have been conducting the work of the General Assembly 
since your election. My delegation also acknowledges 
with appreciation the great work carried out during the 
seventy-second session by the co-Chairs from Croatia 
and  Colombia  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
We also take this opportunity to warmly congratulate 
the Permanent Representatives of the Slovak Republic 
and  the  Kingdom  of  Jordan  on  their  appointment  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  Working  Group  for  this  session  and 
wish them every success.
Kenya  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  on  the 
Working Group delivered by the representative of the 
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria on behalf of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
My  delegation  also  notes  that  this  exchange  of 
action-oriented  ideas  pertaining  to  the  revitalization 
of the work of the General Assembly is timely and in 
line  with  the  strategic  priorities  of  this  session,  that 
is,  strengthening  multilateralism  and  achieving  the 
well-being  of  all  persons  and  a  sustainable  planet. 
We welcome the adoption without a vote of resolution 
72/313 on the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly. While significant progress has been made, 
we note that the negotiations leading to the resolution’s 
adoption  were  lengthy  and  fraught  with  various 
contentious issues, most of which had been carried over 
from previous sessions.
Even as we speak of the revitalization of the work 
of this body, we should recognize that the underlying 
causes of the lack of consensus on various issues are much 
broader and require further discussions, with a focus on 
implementation.  We  call  for  political  willingness  and 
indeed  goodwill  on  the  part  of  all  Member  States  to 
overcome  those  persistent  challenges  and  divergences 
of  views.  My  delegation  therefore  welcomes  the 
decision to renew for this session the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly, which will be open to all Member States. It 
is our hope that some of the contentious issues outlined 
in  detail  in  the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  will  be  addressed  in  order 
to  further  improve  the  effectiveness,  efficiency  and 
22/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
working  methods  of  the  Assembly.  Let  me  highlight 
three areas for further consideration.
First,  regarding  the  selection  and  appointment  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  other  executive  heads,  we 
believe that a healthy balance must be sought between 
transparency  and  confidentiality.  Member  States 
should be well informed about the process and able to 
fully understand the working methods of the Security 
Council. The Assembly and the Council should work, 
or  appear  to  work,  in  a  complementary  rather  than 
a  competitive  manner.  Strengthening  the  Office  of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  will  enhance 
such complementarity.
regarding 
Secondly, 
the  membership  of 
the 
Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  Budgetary 
Questions,  a  review  of  the  membership  aimed  at 
ensuring  equitable  geographical  representation  will 
add value to the work of the Committee by broadening 
the scope of its expertise from the various regions.
Finally,  regarding  streamlining  the  Assembly’s 
agenda, with a focus on implementation, adequate time 
needs to be given to the consideration of items that are 
important to developing countries, such as financing for 
development and the Agenda 21 Programme of Action 
for Sustainable Development and their connections to 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  In  conclusion,  Kenya  reaffirms 
its 
commitment  to  remaining  engaged  and  contributing 
constructively to the efforts to revitalize the work of the 
General Assembly, the chief deliberative policymaking 
organ of the United Nations.
Mr. Gad (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): First of all, we 
welcome the convening of this annual meeting on two 
important agenda items, 122 and 123, one dealing with 
the  implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  other  with  the  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to 
congratulate the Permanent Representatives of Jordan 
and  Slovakia  on  co-chairing  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly during the current session.
The  Egyptian  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement delivered earlier by the delegation of Algeria 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
Given  the  central  role  played  by  the  General 
Assembly  within  the  United  Nations  as  the  principal 
organ  with  universal  representation  and  the  most 
representative  at  the  international  and  multilateral 
levels,  we  believe  that  the  revitalization  of  the  work 
of  the  General  Assembly  forms  an  essential  part  of 
efforts to consolidate the role of the United Nations as 
a whole. Improving the performance and efficiency of 
the General Assembly is therefore the first step towards 
realizing  a  United  Nations  that  is  more  democratic, 
global  and  capable  of  fulfilling  its  international 
functions and the tremendous duties conferred on it by 
the Charter.
We all recognize that the General Assembly plays 
various  vital  roles  under  Article  10  of  Chapter  IV  of 
the Charter. It has the authority to discuss any question 
or  matter  pertaining  to  the  Charter  or  relating  to  the 
powers  and  functions  of  any  organ  stipulated  in  the 
Charter. It can also make recommendations to Members 
of the United Nations and to members of the Security 
Council, except as provided in Article 12 of the Charter. 
Paragraph 3 of Article 11 of the Charter also authorizes 
the  Assembly  to  call  the  attention  of  the  Security 
Council to issues likely to endanger international peace 
and security. Moreover, in accordance with Article 15, 
the Assembly receives and studies annual and special 
reports  from  the  Council.  Those  reports  include  an 
account of the measures that the Council has decided 
on or taken in the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  In  addition,  the  General  Assembly 
receives  and  considers  reports  from  other  organs  of 
the Organization.
The  Assembly’s  recent  adoption  by  consensus  in 
September of resolution 72/313 gives further impetus to 
efforts aimed at strengthening the role and the authority 
of the General Assembly. Accordingly, we hope for its 
full  implementation,  as  it  has  become  increasingly 
necessary to strengthen the role and the authority of the 
General  Assembly  and  improve  its  working  methods 
at  the  administrative,  organizational,  technical  and 
substantive levels. We also want to recall the importance 
of improving the institutional memory of the Office of 
the President of the General Assembly and the process 
of  selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-General  of 
the United Nations.
today 
international 
The  United  Nations 
faces  significant 
challenges  and  dangerous 
threats, 
including in relation to the fight against terrorism, the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
the  achievement  of  sustainable  development,  as  well 
as  addressing  the  root  causes  of  crises  and  conflicts 
throughout  the  world.  It  is  therefore  imperative  to 
18-37787
23/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
intensify  cooperation  among  the  principal  United 
Nations  organs  so  as  to  ensure  that  their  efforts  are 
concerted  and  coordinated,  as  well  as  to  achieve  the 
complementarity of international endeavours. We also 
want to highlight the importance of striking a delicate 
balance  between  the  prerogatives  and  mandates  of 
those  organs  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  We 
therefore hope for improved coordination, cooperation 
and  interaction  among  the  main  organs  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council, in order to better address international 
issues in a more effective way, especially those related 
to international peace and security.
Let  me  highlight  some  priority  issues  for  Egypt 
under agenda item 123, on revitalizing the work of the 
General Assembly.
First, we need to revitalize the role of the General 
Assembly and improve its mechanisms in dealing with 
urgent international issues in cooperation with the other 
relevant  United  Nations  bodies.  Secondly,  we  must 
ensure the necessary financial and human resources for 
the easy flow of the Organization’s work. Accordingly, 
we  recall  the  point  made  in  the  statement  on  behalf 
of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  on  the 
importance fo reforming rule 155 of the Assembly’s rules 
of procedure in order to enlarge the membership of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions and improve its geographical and equitable 
representation, especially given the fact that the Group 
of African States, like the Asian  and Latin American 
States, suffers from a lack of significant representation 
on the Advisory Committee by comparison with other 
regional groups.
In conclusion, we look forward to the implementation 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  recently  unveiled  new 
reforms  aimed  at  strengthening  the  Organization’s 
architecture and role in the areas of peace and security 
and development, and on administrative and financial 
issues. We also look forward to continuing to cooperate 
with  all  Member  States  to  achieve  those  objectives 
and  purposes,  so  that  we  can  meet  the  aspirations  of 
the  States  and  peoples  who  place  their  hope  in  this 
international Organization.
I would like once again to express to you, Madam 
President, our deep gratitude and appreciation for the 
tireless efforts that you are undertaking in collaboration 
with  the  staff  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Bin  Momen 
(Bangladesh):  Bangladesh 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned Countries.
We  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session  for  sharing  her  insights 
and  for  linking  the  question  of  the  revitalization  of 
the General Assembly to the primacy of upholding the 
values and principles of multilateralism. We appreciate 
her  commitment  to  promoting  equity,  fairness  and 
transparency  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
reaffirm our confidence in her able stewardship of the 
chief  deliberative  policymaking  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. Bangladesh continues to stress that functional 
relations  among  the  principal  organs  can  be  further 
strengthened by upholding their respective competencies 
and  responsibilities.  The  efficiency  of  the  respective 
organs  can  be  further  improved  through  collective 
efforts  to  build  synergy  and  complementarities  and 
avoid  duplication  and  overlapping.  We  commend  the 
regular  dialogue  held  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly with the Presidents of the Security Council 
and the Economic and Social Council. In that context, 
we take particular note of the joint meeting convened 
this month to reaffirm Member States’ commitment to 
multilateralism through the further strengthening and 
energizing of the United Nations.
Bangladesh  welcomes  the  adoption  by  consensus 
of resolution 72/313 earlier this year and looks forward 
to  constructive  engagement  among  delegations  in  the 
coming year. We advocate for the need to demonstrate 
flexibility with regard to addressing certain outstanding 
critical issues. We take note of the incremental changes 
being  made  but  stress  the  need  for  a  much  bolder 
and  more  decisive  approach  in  order  to  reinforce  the 
role  and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  have 
witnessed  some  notable  changes  in  the  appointment 
process  of  the  Secretary-General,  the  conduct  of 
elections  to  various  bodies,  the  further  strengthening 
of  the  transparency,  effectiveness  and  institutional 
memory of the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly,  and  the  promotion  of  gender  parity  at  the 
level of senior management.
the 
We  underscore 
importance  of  sustaining 
those  trends  in  the  paramount  interest  of  making  the 
United  Nations  more  fit  for  purpose.  We  see  ample 
justification  for  assigning  additional  permanent  posts 
to the Office of the President of the General Assembly. 
Among other issues, we reiterate support for reviewing 
24/26 
18-37787
14/11/2018 
A/73/PV.35
the  composition  of 
the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  with  a  view 
to  its  possible  expansion,  considering  the  increase  in 
United Nations membership since 1977.
Bangladesh  appreciates  the  initiatives  taken  by 
the  Main  Committees  to  introduce  further  efficiency 
into their respective working methods. We see merit in 
harmonizing some of those efficiency measures across 
all the Committees, wherever possible. The issue of time 
management, especially in relation to group and national 
statements, is a particular case in point. It is critical that 
the consensus-based approach, which is germane to any 
given Committee’s work, be maintained in the shared 
interest of all Member States. We have noted the drastic 
reduction  in  the  percentage  of  resolutions  adopted  by 
consensus  in  the  First  Committee  during  this  session 
compared to last year.
The  need  for  further  streamlining  the  number  of 
items  on  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda  is  widely 
acknowledged. A similar approach is also warranted in 
the  case  of  the  number  of  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
Assembly. It merits our collective consideration to study 
whether  it  is  actually  in  our  long-term  national  and 
shared  interests  to  have  a  proliferation  of  resolutions 
on  issues  that  could  be  conveniently  addressed  in  the 
framework  of  a  number  of  other  existing  resolutions. 
Any  national  or  regional  initiative  to  highlight  or 
advance  certain  issues  does  not  necessarily  need  to 
be  translated  into  an  altogether  new  resolution.  We 
see  ample  merit  in  the  notion  of  biennalizing  and 
triennalizing certain resolutions adopted by the General 
Assembly. That should also be approached in a spirit of 
flexibility  and  accommodation  among  all  delegations 
concerned,  preferably  based  on  an  objective  set  of 
criteria for determining the relevance and frequency of 
various resolutions.
The issue of decluttering the general debate, or the 
high-level  segment,  of  the  annual  General  Assembly 
session is also becoming a subject of high importance 
for  many  delegations.  It  is  perhaps  necessary  at  this 
juncture  to  set  some  clear  criteria  for  organizing 
events  during  the  high-level  week,  especially  with 
regard to issues that have relevance to the main focus 
of  the  general  debate  and  other  United  Nations  high-
level  events  taking  place  during  the  high-level  week. 
Bangladesh  acknowledges  the  user-friendly  changes 
made  to  the  format,  production  and  editing  of  the 
Journal  of  the  United  Nations.  We  appreciate  the 
opportunity  for  the  Permanent  Missions  to  engage  in 
dialogue with the Secretariat in order to help address 
issues of mutual interest and concern in an interactive 
and transparent manner.
In  conclusion,  Bangladesh 
the 
looks  forward 
to 
engaging  constructively 
thematic  debates 
and  negotiations  on  the  draft  resolution  on  this  item 
under the aegis of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly 
next year.
in 
Ms.  Bahous  (Jordan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President of the General Assembly for convening this 
important debate on revitalizing the work of the General 
Assembly, which is the world’s largest multilateral and 
most democratic organ. I have the honour to speak today 
on behalf of Slovakia and Jordan, the two co-Chairs of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work of the General Assembly.
The  world  is  facing  formidable  challenges  that 
are  threatening  the  very  values  of  our  humanity  and 
the  very  foundations  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  —  increasing  inequalities,  unemployment, 
exclusion,  difficult  economic  conditions,  armed 
conflict,  terrorism,  violent  extremism,  radicalization, 
refugee  issues,  migration,  climate  change  and  efforts 
to meet the Sustainable Development Goals. We are all 
being challenged to ensure that the ways and methods 
of working at the United Nations reflect positively on 
the way we address those challenges and how we work 
to improve the lives of the people on this planet.
It  is  here  at  the  General  Assembly  that  we  can 
and  should  find  acceptable  answers  and  solutions,  all 
of  which  are  anchored  in  multilateralism.  Like  you, 
Madam  President,  we  believe  that  we  must  adapt  and 
revitalize  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  so  as  to 
achieve  our  goals  in  the  best  way  possible.  Difficult 
as  it  may  seem,  that  is  possible  and  doable,  provided 
that we have the strong political will to pursue it. The 
General  Assembly  must  function  as  smoothly  and  as 
efficiently as possible.
In your letter of 30 October, Madam, you appointed 
my  colleague, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Slovakia,  and  me,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jordan, as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-third session. We co-Chairs would like to 
express  our  deep  appreciation  for  the  confidence  that 
you  have  placed  in  us  and  look  forward  to  a  smooth, 
comprehensive and transparent process. In that regard, 
18-37787
25/26
A/73/PV.35 
14/11/2018
I would also like to thank the previous co-Chairs, the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Colombia, 
for  their  tireless  work  to  move  the  revitalization 
agenda forward.
I  also  want  to  thank  everyone  who  spoke  this 
morning.  Their  statements  confirmed  their  readiness 
to engage in a comprehensive and objective manner in 
the  many  issues  involved  in  improving  and  enriching 
the  work  of  this  great  body,  the  General  Assembly. 
As co-Chairs, we will soon start conducting informal 
consultations  with  delegations  and  groups  wishing  to 
engage  in  the  process  so  as  to  identify  the  views  and 
concerns  that  we  need  to  address  early  on.  We,  the 
co-Chairs,  look  forward  to  working  together  towards 
a solid consensus document and to our joint success in 
that endeavour.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  its  consideration  of  agenda  items 
122 and 123.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
26/26 
18-37787
