United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
28th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 October 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Al-Thani 
(Qatar), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 77 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/334)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/333 and 
A/73/335)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.8)
Ms.  Brink  (Australia):  This  year  we  celebrate 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  That  treaty  is  a 
remarkable achievement. It is the product of a common 
resolve, forged by the horrors of the previous century, 
to create a permanent international court to prosecute 
and  punish  those  responsible  for  the  most  egregious 
international crimes.
We  also  mark  another  milestone  this  year,  the 
activation  of  the  ICC’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime 
of  aggression.  The  Court  is  now  empowered  to 
exercise  jurisdiction  over  the  four  core  international 
crimes  —  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity, 
genocide and aggression. It is worth emphasizing that 
the  ICC  does  not  operate  in  isolation.  It  is  part  of  an 
international criminal justice system, the Rome Statute 
system. The ICC’s role is to step in only where national 
jurisdictions are unable or unwilling to act.
As a strong supporter of accountability and a long-
standing supporter of the ICC, Australia will continue 
to work with all States parties to ensure that the Court 
is as strong an institution as it needs to be to fulfil its 
mandate. We encourage Member States not yet party to 
the  Rome  Statute  to  consider  ratifying  it,  particularly 
non-parties in our own region of the Indo-Pacific.
the  Charter  of 
At  their  core,  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations 
are  striving  to  achieve  the  same  goals.  One  of  the 
primary  purposes  of 
the  United 
Nations  —  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security — aligns with those of the Rome Statute. 
History has demonstrated clearly that sustainable peace 
and impunity for serious international crimes rarely go 
hand in hand. All too often, impunity catalyses conflict.
The  interrelationship  between  the  mandates  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC  makes  the  Court  a 
key partner for the United Nations, particularly as the 
United Nations pivots to focus more on prevention. As 
its  key  partner,  it  is  critical  to  ensure  that  the  United 
Nations provides the ICC with the support it needs to 
deliver on its mandate.
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  so 
far and encourage the Secretary-General to continue to 
enhance cooperation under the Relationship Agreement. 
We  have  heard  the  Prosecutor’s  repeated  requests  for 
effective  Security  Council  follow-up  and  support 
with respect to situations referred to the Court by the 
Council.  It  is  essential  that  the  Council  not  approach 
ICC  referrals  in  a  set-and-forget  frame  of  mind.  Its 
ongoing  political  support  for  the  work  of  the  ICC  is 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-34919 (E)
*1834919*

A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
critical,  particularly  with  respect  to  our  cooperation 
with the Court.
We must not neglect the critical role that consistent, 
impartial justice plays in the international community’s 
response  to  the  trauma  wrought  by  conflict.  Indeed, 
victims  and  the  communities  affected  have  been 
consistently calling for justice as an essential component 
of viable political outcomes and reconciliation. While 
we  are  clear-eyed  about  the  challenges  ahead,  the 
international  community  simply  must  not  tolerate 
impunity. Those who are most responsible for serious 
international crimes must be held to account. We call 
on the Assembly to ensure that the Court receives full 
and consistent support for that essential mandate.
Mr. Skinner-Kleé Arenales (Guatemala) (spoke in 
Spanish): Allow me to thank Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
for his briefing on his report (see A/73/334), updating 
us  on  the  important  events  in  the  proceedings  of  the 
International Criminal Court during the past year. We 
appreciate and take note of the information on the cases 
filed,  the  final  judgments  pronounced  in  two  cases 
by  the  Appeals  Chamber,  the  important  decisions  on 
reparations  to  victims,  the  preliminary  examinations, 
and the new investigations conducted by the Office of 
the Prosecutor.
Guatemala reaffirms its unequivocal support for the 
ICC and its commitment to the fight against impunity. 
My  delegation  values  the  support  and  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court, not only because they strengthen the 
dialogue and relationship between the two entities, but 
also because they serve to give visibility to the hugely 
important  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
which provides us with an opportunity to strengthen its 
authority and deepen our knowledge about its mandate 
and  the  unquestionable  importance  of  cooperation 
among States.
Guatemala  would  like  to  reiterate  its  respect  for 
the principle of complementarity and for strengthening 
national systems to ensure accountability. As we have said 
before, the International Criminal Court does not replace 
national  courts.  Moreover,  an  essential  component  of 
the Rome Statute is the principle of complementarity, 
whereby  national  criminal  jurisdictions  have  primacy 
in  investigating  and  prosecuting  those  responsible  for 
the crimes contemplated when the Court was founded, 
particularly the most serious crimes.
For that reason, we believe it is necessary to improve 
the  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  Security 
Council so as to join their efforts and help to prevent 
crimes that undermine international peace and security 
and fight impunity for such acts. It is also appropriate 
to hold regular exchanges between the Council and the 
Court independently of the informational meetings that 
between the two.
Cooperation  is  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars  of 
the  proper  functioning  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. A firm commitment on the part of States parties 
is  therefore  crucial  to  efforts  to  build  the  Court’s 
capacity to ensure accountability, bring justice, provide 
reparations to victims and contribute to the prevention 
of  future  crimes,  as  the  spirit  of  the  Rome  Statute 
requires.
relevance  and 
importance  of 
The  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  must  work  to 
strengthen  their  cooperation  and  continually  reaffirm 
the 
international 
criminal justice as we work to ensure the rule of law 
and  international  peace  and  security.  My  delegation 
urges  that  we  redouble  our  efforts  to  achieve  a 
universal  regime.  Each  step  towards  universality  will 
significantly  reduce  the  risk  of  impunity  and  help  to 
strengthen States’ peace and stability. For that reason, 
we must continue to promote the universal dimension 
of  the  Rome  Statute  and  maintain  the  momentum  for 
the ratification and accession processes.
Finally, on the twentieth anniversary of the Court, 
I would like to reiterate my country’s commitment to 
supporting  the  Court’s  work,  since  it  is  more  than  an 
institution based on a foundational document. Its work 
is cross-cutting and lies at the heart of an international 
justice  system  with  worldwide  impact.  In  recognition 
of that, my delegation has chosen to be a sponsor of the 
annual  draft  resolution  (A/73/L.8)  on  the  work  of  the 
International Criminal Court.
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): The International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  is  an  independent  organization 
with  a  strong  institutional  connection  to  the  United 
Nations.  The  two  are  bound  by  a  common  purpose, 
in that both the Charter of the United Nations and the 
Rome Statute are founded on the principles of justice 
and  international  law.  They  have  had  a  fruitful  and 
productive relationship on the basis of the Relationship 
Agreement  governing  their  interaction.  But  while 
that  has  been  true  in  all  the  past  years  that  we  have 
2/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
discussed the reports of the Court, today’s debate takes 
on an additional dimension.
International  organizations  and 
treaties,  and 
indeed  multilateral  approaches  as  such,  have  been 
increasingly  under  assault.  Both  the  United  Nations 
and  the  ICC  have  been  subject  to  political  attacks, 
and  many  of  the  achievements  of  the  recent  past  are 
in jeopardy. Other areas affected include trade, climate 
change,  disarmament  and,  of  course,  accountability 
and human rights. It can therefore come as no surprise 
that  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  yet  again 
under attack by those who feel threatened by the idea 
of  international  criminal  justice  —  an  area  in  which 
progress  has  been  fast  and  steady  over  the  past  two 
decades.  It  has  never  been  more  important  than  it  is 
today  to  express  unequivocal  political  support  for 
the  Court  —  the  world’s  first  and  only  permanent, 
international,  independent  judicial  institution  with 
jurisdiction over the most serious crimes.
While our support for the Court must be unwavering, 
we should not be uncritical. The Court faces significant 
external challenges, but it also suffers from problems 
within,  problems  that  it  cannot  afford.  It  is  therefore 
time for the States parties to demonstrate leadership by 
asserting ownership, while fully respecting the Court’s 
judicial  independence,  which  is  an  indispensable 
element  of  any  court  of  law.  We  look  forward  to  an 
honest  and  constructive  dialogue  with  the  Court  to 
address the challenges it is facing.
A landmark development — not just for the Court 
but  for  international  law  more  generally  —  occurred 
on 17 July, the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of 
the Rome Statute. That day also marked the activation 
of the ICC’s jurisdiction over the crime of aggression, 
the  most  serious  form  of  the  illegal  use  of  force  by 
one State against another. For the first time since the 
Nuremberg  trials  more  than  70  years  ago,  we  have 
individual  criminal  accountability  for  illegal  war-
making. That moment, based on a consensus decision 
by the 123 States parties, could not be more opportune. 
At a time when international norms are being dealt with 
in  an  increasingly  cavalier  manner,  with  a  growing 
expectation  of  impunity  for  the  most  heinous  crimes, 
and when well-established international rules on the use 
of force are being bent or violated, nothing can be more 
important than making it clear that the commission of 
crimes of aggression entails criminal accountability for 
those responsible.
It  is  also  another  important  illustration  of  how 
closely  the  mandates  of  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations  are  connected.  The  prohibition  on  the  use  of 
force  is  at  the  very  core  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, and it is the International Criminal Court that 
now  offers  the  necessary  complement  of  individual 
criminal  responsibility.  That  is  essential,  although 
not so much because the Court is likely to exercise its 
newfound jurisdiction very soon. It is not going to do 
so,  and  owing  to  the  exemption  of  non-States  parties 
from  its  jurisdictional  regime,  its  reach  is  limited. 
It  is,  however,  essential  for  States  to  have  a  legally 
binding international definition of the act and crime of 
aggression, both for their consideration as to whether 
to add that crime to their national penal codes and for 
possible  decision-making  processes,  including  in  the 
Security Council.
We  have  also  recently  witnessed  the  first  referral 
of a situation in a State that is party to the Court by a 
number of other States parties. All the triggers foreseen 
under the Rome Statute for the exercise of jurisdiction 
have been applied. We welcome that development and 
encourage reflection on a similar course of action with 
respect to the crimes committed against the Rohingya 
population.  Since  the  Court  has  concluded  that  it  has 
jurisdiction  with  respect  to  the  forced  deportation  of 
the Rohingya population who have fled to Cox’s Bazar 
in  Bangladesh,  we  now  have  a  direct  path  to  justice. 
We hope that there will be serious consideration of that 
policy  option,  not  only  in  the  interest  of  justice,  but 
also in order to enable a forcibly displaced population 
to return home.
Whenever  there  is  a  massive  crisis  of  impunity, 
whether in Myanmar, Syria or Yemen, we automatically 
hear  calls  for  the  involvement  of  the  ICC  from  civil 
society,  victims  and  policymakers.  In  many  of  those 
instances, however, the Court does not have jurisdiction. 
Working  towards  universality  is  a  long  and  arduous 
task. We must and can make progress — but we should 
be under no illusion that a significant number of States 
will join the ICC system in the coming years.
Hopes  that  the  Security  Council  might  step  in 
to  fill  impunity  gaps  have  proven  futile  time  and 
again,  and  it  would  be  naive  to  expect  that  to  change 
in  the  foreseeable  future.  It  is  therefore  all  the  more 
important  that  we  understand  the  Court  as  it  was 
designed  to  be  understood,  not  just  as  an  institution 
working  in  isolation  in  The  Hague,  but  rather  as 
the  centrepiece  of  an  international  criminal  justice 
18-34919
3/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
system. In that regard, strengthening the capacities of 
national judiciaries can play an important role, as can 
the  exercise  of  universal  jurisdiction.  As  evidenced 
in  the  creation  of  the  International,  Impartial  and 
Independent Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation 
and  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  the  Most 
Serious Crimes under International Law Committed in 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  since  March  2011,  there  is 
room for innovation, which is a far better policy option 
than inaction. Engagement to fight impunity where the 
ICC does not have competence complements the very 
mission for which the Court was created.
Finally, I have the honour to deliver the following 
message  on  behalf  of  Austria,  Belgium,  Costa  Rica, 
the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, the Netherlands, 
Portugal,  Slovenia,  Switzerland  and  my  own  country, 
Liechtenstein,  which  are  all  Member  States  that  are 
strong  supporters  of  the  ICC  and  its  mission  to  end 
impunity for the worst crimes known to humankind.
We  would  like  to  thank  the  facilitator  from 
Mexico for his work on the draft resolution before us 
(A/73/L.8), and we appreciate his intentions to deliver a 
consensus outcome.
Our delegations have joined the consensus on that 
draft  resolution  because  we  strongly  believe  in  the 
work of the Court. We have also decided to become a 
sponsor of it because it includes many important points 
and because we want to express our commitment to the 
Court. However, we would also like to point out what 
we consider to be a significant deficiency in the present 
text. We want to underline that the draft resolutions that 
the Assembly is asked to adopt should always include, 
as a bare minimum, technical and factual updates. We 
find  it  necessary  to  make  this  statement  in  order  to 
highlight the fact that a number of major international 
law  developments  in  the  past  year  have  been  omitted 
from  the  draft  resolution  before  us.  They  include  the 
landmark  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
the historic activation of the ICC’s jurisdiction over the 
crime  of  aggression  and  the  adoption  of  amendments 
adding three new war crimes to the Rome Statute.
The  historic  significance  of  those  developments 
cannot  be  overstated.  The  Court 
is  a  central 
achievement  of  multilateral  diplomacy  and  a  true 
milestone  in  the  development  of  international  law.  In 
July, the international community marked the twentieth 
anniversary of the Rome Statute, an occasion that many 
States used in order to reaffirm their commitment to the 
Court and the broader rules-based international order. 
Also  in  July,  the  ICC’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression  went  into  effect.  Never  has  humankind 
had a permanent independent international court with 
the authority to hold individuals accountable for their 
decisions to commit aggression, the worst form of the 
illegal use of force. Now we do. The Court will thus help 
to enforce a fundamental provision of the Charter of the 
United Nations, the prohibition on the use of force.
Finally,  last  year,  during  its  sixteenth  session, 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
adopted  three  new  amendments  to  article  8  of  the 
Statute,  expanding  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  Those 
three  amendments  criminalize  the  use  of  microbial, 
biological or toxin weapons, weapons that injure through 
fragments that are undetectable by X-rays, and blinding 
laser  weapons,  both  in  international  armed  conflicts 
and armed conflicts not of an international character.
The  omissions  in  this  year’s  text  happen  to  be 
very  significant.  But  even  if  the  developments  were 
of more limited relevance, we would still want to see 
a General Assembly draft resolution reflect them. We 
must not allow the Assembly — whether on the topic 
of international justice or indeed any other area — to 
adopt texts that are outdated. We are confident that we 
will do better next year.
Mr.  Favre  (Switzerland)  (spoke 
in  French): 
Switzerland  thanks  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, Judge Eboe-Osuji, for the presentation 
of his report (see A/73/334).
itself  with 
Switzerland  aligns 
the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Liechtenstein  on 
behalf of a number of countries, including Switzerland. 
I would like to add the following remarks in my national 
capacity.
We  States  adopted  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) 20 years ago. Today, 
more  than  ever,  we  need  the  Court  to  ensure  a  rules-
based  international  order,  and  the  ICC  needs  us.  Its 
critics argue that the world would be better off without 
it,  and  no  one  would  deny  that  in  a  perfect  world  the 
ICC would have no reason to exist. Unfortunately, we 
do not live in an ideal world. War and violence are still 
very much with us. States often fail to fight impunity 
vigorously or do not have the financial and institutional 
resources to do so at the national level.
4/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
The  need  for  effective  criminal  justice  —  in 
other words, for an ICC that holds actors accountable, 
contributes to the maintenance of sustainable peace and 
serves victims — remains unchanged. What has changed 
in recent years is the context. Nationalism is on the rise, 
and the fight against impunity at the international level 
is often misrepresented as an obstacle to peace rather 
than  as  one  of  its  building  blocks.  The  fact  that  one 
State  has  recently  withdrawn  from  the  Rome  Statute 
and that another withdrawal is about to take effect is a 
reflection of that regrettable development. The same is 
true for the political attacks against the Court.
Against  that  backdrop,  firm  signals  are  needed. 
We  must  reaffirm  that  we  stand  behind  international 
criminal  justice  and  the  ICC  as  a  vital,  independent 
and impartial part of it. During the high-level week of 
the General Assembly, 35 foreign ministers, including 
Switzerland’s,  issued  a  public  statement  reaffirming 
their  commitment  to  the  Court.  Equally,  we  consider 
the referral by six States of a situation to the Court, the 
first collective referral in its history, to be a sign of trust 
in and support for the Court. Looking ahead, we must 
maintain  and  strengthen  our  political  and  diplomatic 
support for the ICC. We invite Member States that have 
not yet done so to investigate atrocity crimes, prosecute 
their perpetrators through their national authorities and 
ratify the Rome Statute.
The collaboration between the ICC and the organs 
of the United Nations is intense, and for good reasons. 
Their  mandates  and  goals  are  mutually  reinforcing. 
The  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression 
is  in  the  fundamental  interest  of  the  United  Nations 
and its Member States. The Security Council can refer 
aggressive  war-making  to  the  ICC,  not  to  mention 
the  dissuasive  and  thereby  protective  effect  that  the 
possibility  of  referring  perpetrators  of  aggression  to 
the Court provides.
The  commemoration  of  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of the adoption of the Rome Statute reminds us of the 
historic  progress  that  the  establishment  of  the  ICC 
represents.  Today,  notwithstanding 
the  numerous 
challenges that we face, we must reaffirm our collective 
commitment to ending impunity for the perpetrators of 
the most horrific crimes and bringing justice to victims. 
Our support in that regard must not falter.
Mr.  Duque  Estrada  Meyer  (Brazil):  The  Statute 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  celebrated 
its  twentieth  anniversary  on  17  July.  In  addition  to 
providing us with an opportunity to reflect on the many 
achievements of the past two decades in that regard, that 
date represented a milestone for international justice. It 
marked the activation of the ICC’s jurisdiction over the 
crime of aggression and thus finally, and consensually, 
completing  the  Statute  as  originally  envisaged.  The 
fact that the ICC now has jurisdiction over the crime of 
aggression gives additional meaning to the prohibition 
of  the  use  of  force,  fostering  a  more  stable,  just  and 
democratic world order.
As a proud founder of the ICC, Brazil is pleased that 
it  has  firmly  established  itself  as  the  first  permanent 
tribunal  for  fighting  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
international  crimes.  In  ensuring  that  those  accused 
and brought before it are judged with fairness and full 
respect for their rights, the Court is an instrument for 
justice and peace.
I am pleased to be able to point out that not only 
are all South American countries parties to the Rome 
Statute,  but  also  that  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States represent the second largest regional group among 
the  States  parties,  behind  only  the  Group  of  African 
States.  Any  misperception  of  the  existence  of  bias  or 
selectivity  in  the  ICC’s  activity  can  be  definitively 
dispelled  only  by  increasing  the  universality  of  the 
Statute and thereby expanding the space within which 
the  Court  can  operate.  That  is  particularly  relevant 
when we bear in mind that a number of important actors 
are still not parties to the Statute. Brazil reiterates that 
international criminal justice is a central element of the 
rule of law and should apply to all.
In the general debate of this session of the General 
Assembly, Brazil drew attention (see A/73/PV.6) to the 
fact that in order to improve our rules-based order, we 
now have an additional task before us, that of defending 
its very integrity. Like all socially constructed systems, 
international  law  cannot  sustain  itself.  It  must  be 
nurtured, developed and protected. The mandate of the 
Court  requires  that  it  speak  law  to  power.  At  a  time 
when multilateralism is under fire and political attacks 
on  the  ICC  are  increasing,  Brazil  underscores  our 
policy, namely, that we will always respect the Court’s 
integrity  and  independence,  indispensable  features  of 
any court of law.
I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
President of the ICC for presenting the Court’s report 
(see  A/73/334),  which  gives  a  clear  indication  of 
its  significant  workload.  Since  its  establishment  20 
18-34919
5/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
years ago, the Court has opened 26 cases involving 41 
suspects or accused and conducted investigations into 
11 situations. Against that backdrop, Brazil reiterates its 
long-standing concern about the financing of Security 
Council  referrals.  That  is  a  structural  issue  that  goes 
to the very core of the relationship between the Court 
and the United Nations, and the General Assembly in 
particular.
Once  again,  we 
for 
reiterate  our  call 
the 
implementation  of  article  13  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  and  article  115  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
which  provide  clear  guidance  to  the  effect  that  such 
costs should be met, at least partially, by funds provided 
by the United Nations and should not fall solely on the 
parties to the Statute. It is equally important to stress 
that as laid out in Article 17 of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  the  General  Assembly  has  the  exclusive 
responsibility  to  consider  and  approve  the  budget  of 
the  Organization.  The  proper  funding  of  Security 
Council referrals would enhance the credibility of both 
the Court and the United Nations. To date, the budget 
allocated within the Court in relation to those referrals 
amounts to more than €60 million. The current situation 
is neither fair nor sustainable.
The  report  contains  a  number  of  suggestions 
aimed  at  improving  the  relationship  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  Court.  Brazil  concurs  with 
the assessment that a more structured dialogue between 
them  on  issues  of  mutual  interest,  both  thematic  and 
situation-specific,  would  be  beneficial.  Through  the 
case law that it has developed over the past two decades, 
the  ICC  has  accumulated  significant  knowledge  on 
issues  such  as  children  and  armed  conflict,  women 
and peace and security, and the protection of cultural 
property. The discussion in the context of the Council’s 
Arria  Formula  meeting  on  6  July  convened  by  the 
States parties that sit on the Security Council, provided 
food for thought in that regard. From a very practical 
perspective, there is significant room for improvement 
in  the  cooperation  between  the  Security  Council 
Sanctions  Committees  and  the  ICC,  especially  with 
regard to travel bans and assets freezes.
Increased  cooperation  remains  one  of  the  best 
ways  to  enhance  the  Court’s  effectiveness.  While  the 
execution of its outstanding arrest warrants regrettably 
continues to be the most visible challenge in this area, 
it  will  also  be  critical  to  diversify  witness-relocation 
agreements  and  strengthen  financial  investigations. 
Asset recovery could even contribute to securing funds 
for  reparations  to  victims  and  covering  the  costs  of 
legal aid.
Seeking  to  reconcile  retributive  and  restorative 
justice,  the  Rome  Statute  contains  a  sophisticated  set 
of provisions on victims’ rights that seeks not only to 
protect victims but also to enable them to participate in 
the proceedings and apply for reparations. Victims of 
genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and the 
crime of aggression have rights, and their voices must 
be  heard.  Over  the  past  20  years,  more  than  22,000 
victims have applied to participate in proceedings, and 
thousands more have applied to make submissions at the 
investigation stage or during reparations proceedings.
Brazil notes with appreciation that providing justice 
for  victims  continues  to  be  an  essential  component 
of  the  Court’s  daily  work.  We  welcome  the  fact  that 
reparations procedures are ongoing in various cases and 
that the Trust Fund for Victims has assisted more than 
450,000  individuals  with  physical  and  psychological 
rehabilitation, as well as material support. We commend 
the efforts being made to enhance witness protection, 
including through relocation agreements, and we stress 
the  role  of  the  positive  dimensions  of  cooperation 
through the strengthening of national capacities.
The quest for peace and justice is always challenging, 
and that challenge is inherent in the search for a more 
just and collaborative world order. Let us not fall into 
the  trap  of  operating  with  dichotomies  that  oppose 
peace to justice and sovereignty to accountability. We 
should rather focus on the shared values that bring the 
General  Assembly  together  and  that  have  made  the 
first permanent and treaty-based international criminal 
court a reality. Brazil remains firm in its commitment 
to the Rome Statute system and to the cause of justice 
that motivated its creation.
Ms.  Durney  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Chile 
appreciates  the  full  report  of  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (see  A/73/334), 
covering the period from 1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018, 
which  reflects  the  workload  of  the  Court,  20  years 
after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  take  note 
of  the  account  of  its  judicial  activities  in  that  period, 
as well as those of the Office of the Prosecutor and the 
Registry,  in  the  areas  of  preliminary  examinations, 
investigations and judicial proceedings, including final 
judgments in two cases, and decisions on reparations to 
victims  and  their  implementation  in  fulfilment  of  the 
Court’s mandate. Our appreciation also goes to the new 
6/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
President of the Assembly of States Parties, who led our 
work during this period.
Chile  has  actively  supported  the  Court  since 
the  beginning  of  the  process  that  led  to  the  adoption 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  as  we  stated  at  the  anniversary 
ceremonies  that  took  place  in  The  Hague  and  New 
York. One of the concrete ways we showed our support 
was  by  ratifying  the  amendments  to  article  8  of  the 
Rome Statute, as well as the amendments to the Statute 
relating  to  the  crime  of  aggression.  We  are  aware  of 
the progress that has been made and of the challenges 
that the Court faces on a daily basis and that make it 
urgent to ensure that States continue to work together 
in a coordinated manner.
The  celebrations  commemorating  the  anniversary 
gave  us  an  opportunity  to  highlight  the  importance 
of  the  relationship  between  the  States  parties  and  the 
Court,  which  makes  it  possible  to  address  through  a 
comprehensive  dialogue  issues  that  demand  that  the 
criminal  proceedings’  effectiveness  and  efficiency  be 
strengthened  and  the  challenges  of  cooperation  and 
complementarity  addressed.  We  reiterate  the  value  of 
both  concepts,  and  the  importance  of  mechanisms  to 
hold those responsible for crimes within the jurisdiction 
of the Court accountable for their actions. We therefore 
call on all States to cooperate fully with the Court and 
work together to deal with one of its greatest challenges.
Consideration of the issue of the complementarity 
and cooperation of national, regional and international 
courts, in which the International Criminal Court plays 
a key role, should continue, both within the Assembly 
of  States  Parties  and  within  individual  States  in 
conjunction  with  their  domestic  bodies  with  judicial 
and  investigative  functions.  My  country  would  like 
to  reiterate  its  commitment  to  that  effort,  as  we  have 
done regularly in the working groups in The Hague and 
New York, and we hope to make progress in drafting 
legislation on cooperation with the Court that takes into 
account the various areas where that cooperation must 
be implemented.
We  recognize  the  crucial  work  of  the  Court’s 
Trust  Fund  for  Victims,  which  must  have  the  means 
to  fulfil  its  task  of  contributing  to  the  physical  and 
psychological  rehabilitation  of  victims  and  providing 
material  support  to  survivors  of  the  crimes  governed 
by the Statute. In that regard, we would like to recall 
the  visit  of  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  to  Uganda,  along  with  representatives  of  10 
States,  including  Chile.  There  they  monitored  the 
activities  of  the  Trust  Fund  and  received  information 
in the field and the testimonies of community leaders 
and survivors. We thank the Government of Ireland and 
the  Trust  Fund  for  chairing  that  initiative.  The  ICC’s 
digital  exhibit  “Trauma,  healing  and  hope”  reminds 
us that the international community’s efforts to assist 
victims must not cease. We therefore call for voluntary 
contributions to the Trust Fund for the benefit of victims 
and their families.
My  delegation  believes  that  the  communication 
between  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
United  Nations  must  be  intensified,  and  we  support 
the Court’s efforts in that regard to ensure the Security 
Council’s  effective  follow-up  of  situations  that  it 
refers  to  the  Court.  We  also  very  much  hope  that  the 
issues before States and the Court will be receive due 
cooperation,  as  should  issues  raised  by  the  Council’s 
follow-up to referrals.
We  also  want  to  place  on  record  our  appreciation 
to the Secretary-General for the services and facilities 
that  he  provided  in  accordance  with  the  Relationship 
Agreement between the Court and the United Nations 
during the sixteenth session of the Assembly of States 
Parties, held at United Nations Headquarters from 4 to 
14 December 2017. It was important not only because of 
the election of six judges, whose admission to the Court 
we  have  celebrated,  but  also  because  of  the  historic 
agreement reached on activating the jurisdiction of the 
Court over the crime of aggression.
We  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  work  of  the  secretariat  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties,  which  provided  substantive  support 
during  the  sixteenth  session.  We  view  its  functional 
independence  and  structural  integrity  in  meeting  the 
needs  of  States  parties  to  the  Statute  as  fundamental 
and therefore particularly wanted to highlight its work 
on this occasion.
We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  achieving  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  our  confidence 
in the role played by the International Criminal Court 
within  the  architecture  of  international  justice  in 
effectively  combating  impunity  for  the  crimes  that 
international  community  considers  most  serious.  The 
regrettable withdrawal of some States from the Statute, 
which we hope can be reversed, as well as the failure of 
some to ratify or accede to the Statute, should not stop 
us from seeking to maximize the Court’s effectiveness 
18-34919
7/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
and presence within the framework of the international 
legal system.
Mr.  Guillermet-Fernández  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  My  delegation  thanks  Judge  Eboe-Osuji 
for presenting the reports of the Secretary-General on 
the activities of the International Criminal Court (ICC)
during the period from 2017 to 2018. I would also like 
to  congratulate  him  on  his  appointment  in  March  as 
President of the International Criminal Court.
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  undoubtedly 
the  most  important  achievement  of  the  international 
justice  system.  It  is  a  product  of  the  desire  of  the 
international community to put an end to impunity for 
the most serious crimes against humanity and to bring 
justice to its victims. Its essence and main strength lie 
in the fact that the desire for justice is global. For that 
reason, we appreciate the trend towards universality of 
the Rome Statute and its amendments.
In  that  regard,  we  congratulate  Panama,  Guyana 
and Ireland on ratifying the Kampala amendments on 
the crime of aggression, bringing the number of States 
that  have  ratified  them  to  37.  In  addition,  Costa  Rica 
urges all States parties to continue working to achieve 
universality and to continue their efforts to ratify the 
latest amendments to article 8 of the Statute, approved 
by the Assembly of States Parties in December 2017.
Costa  Rica  welcomes  the  addition  on  17  July  to 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  of  the  capacity  to  cover  the 
crime of aggression and the celebration of the twentieth 
anniversary of the Rome Statute on the same date. The 
International Criminal Court was an aspiration of the 
international community for many years. Just over 20 
years  after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  we  can 
now  say  that  the  Court  has  fulfilled  expectations, 
bringing justice to victims of the crime of aggression 
and  laying  the  foundations  for  a  solid  and  innovative 
jurisprudence on international criminal law.
With  regard  to  victims,  my  delegation  recognizes 
the  importance  of  the  fact  that  a  total  of  12,509 
victims  participated  in  cases  before  the  Court  during 
the reporting period, and we were pleased that during 
the  reporting  period  the  Court  received  a  total  of 
384  new  applications  from  victims  for  participation 
or  reparations.  That  is  a  reflection  of  the  Court’s 
importance and the central role it plays for the victims 
of the most egregious crimes under international law.
Nor should we forget that the Court inquestionably 
operates on the principle of complementarity and was 
not created to replace the functions of national courts. 
In  that  regard,  we  should  reaffirm  that  the  primary 
obligation to end impunity for the most heinous crimes 
rests  with  States  in  the  responsible  exercise  of  their 
sovereignty. State sovereignty imposes obligations for 
the investigation and prosecution of crimes committed 
under the jurisdiction of the State concerned.
Only when a State party “is unwilling or unable to 
carry out an investigation or prosecution”, as established 
in article 17, paragraph (a), of the Statute, should those 
crimes be brought to the attention of the International 
Criminal  Court.  For  that  reason,  complementarity 
is  an  essential  part  of  the  machinery  of  international 
criminal  justice.  However,  it  is  essential  to  make  it 
clear  that  when  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  is  activated, 
States  parties  must  comply  with 
inalienable 
responsibilities  outlined  in  the  Rome  Statute.  Failure 
to  comply  with  those  responsibilities  is  particularly 
serious when non-compliance translates into a refusal 
to provide the required support for the investigations of 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  or  into  the  prevention  or 
hindering  of  access  to  evidence,  which  could  ruin  an 
investigation and the associated case and open up the 
possibility for impunity.
the 
Similarly,  the  fight  against  impunity  is  hindered 
every time a State party fails in its obligation to execute 
current  arrest  warrants.  A  lack  of  cooperation  with 
the Court in fulfilling its orders also prevents it from 
providing victims with the justice they seek and deserve. 
Refusing to cooperate with the Court under the pretext 
that it is not impartial or because a high percentage of 
its  cases  refer  to  alleged  violations  occurring  in  the 
same region is not acceptable.
It is time to change the narrative. Those who make 
such  arguments  ignore  the  fact  that  the  situations  in 
Mali, Côte d’Ivoire, Uganda, the Democratic Republic 
of Congo and the two situations in the Central African 
Republic were referred to the Court by the Governments 
of those countries, while the situations in Libya and the 
Sudan were referred to the Court by the Security Council. 
Only  three  out  of  11  situations  —  in  Kenya,  Georgia 
and Burundi — have been initiated motu proprio by the 
Office of the Prosecutor. It would therefore be absurd 
to expect the Office of the Prosecutor to reject referrals 
from States parties in order to maintain a geographical 
balance in its cases.
8/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the 
Court  had  a  large  volume  of  work.  It  issued  new 
arrest warrants against two individuals, one of whom 
was  transferred  to  the  Court,  and  continued  with 
three  trials.  It  pronounced  final  judgments  in  two 
cases  before  the  Appeals  Chamber  and  made  several 
important  decisions  regarding  reparations  to  victims. 
The Prosecutor opened a new investigation, and another 
10  situations  remained  open.  Since  its  inception,  the 
Court  has  initiated  a  total  of  26  cases  and  conducted 
investigations of 11 situations.
international  community,  particularly 
In  order  to  continue  fulfilling  its  mandate,  the 
Court  requires  the  support  and  cooperation  of  the 
entire 
the 
United  Nations,  with  which  it  shares  the  ideals  of 
accountability,  the  protection  of  human  rights,  and 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
We  were  pleased  to  hear  that  the  Court  received  the 
valuable cooperation of the United Nations on various 
matters, such as operational assistance in the field, the 
provision  of  United  Nations  personnel  for  interviews 
and  testimony,  when  needed,  and  the  dissemination 
of  information  generated  by  the  United  Nations  and 
provided under the reimbursement model.
However, my delegation reiterates the need for the 
United Nations to participate in financing the referrals 
made to the ICC by the Security Council. The Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  holds  the  Security  Council 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and  security,  and  therefore,  in  undertaking  those 
referrals, the Court is helping the Council to fulfil its 
mandate.  In  such  cases  of  cooperation,  article  13  of 
the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  Court  and 
the  United  Nations  must  be  applied,  providing  for  an 
economic contribution from our Organization.
In the 20 years since the adoption of the Statute, we 
have witnessed the evolution of an institution that has 
little by little transformed into reality the objectives set 
by  the  delegations  that  came  to  Rome  in  the  summer 
of 1998. Today only the most experienced could name 
all the cases that have been before the Court or that the 
Office of the Prosecutor has investigated. The Court’s 
jurisprudence speaks for itself. Nevertheless, 20 years 
is not a long time, if we take into account the fact that 
we want this Court to be permanent and to transcend 
our children’s generation as well as our own. There is 
much that remains to be done, and States have the main 
responsibility to ensure that the Court has the necessary 
tools to deliver on its mandate.
Costa  Rica  would  like  to  emphasize  its  full 
support  for  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We  are 
committed to continuing to support its universalization, 
independence and integrity so that together with other 
States parties, and with the support of the community 
of  nations,  we  can  ensure  that  international  justice  is 
respected  and  achieved,  including  by  acknowledging 
the  immunity  of  its  judges  and  its  legitimacy  as  a 
legal body.
The International Criminal Court has filled a legal 
vacuum that existed for many decades in the progressive 
development of international law. It is not dead or on its 
deathbed. On the contrary, we predict that it will enjoy 
a long life in its efforts to ensure the rights of victims 
and attain justice.
Mrs.  Leega  Piiskop  (Estonia):  We  thank  Judge 
Eboe-Osuji,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC),  for  his  presentation  of  the  latest  annual 
report  of  the  Court  (see  A/73/334)  and  his  ongoing 
service to it. We welcome this debate today to discuss 
the  contributions  of  the  Court  and  the  international 
community to international criminal justice.
Estonia fully aligns itself with the statement made 
this  morning  by  the  observer  of  the  European  Union 
(see A/73/PV.27).
Estonia firmly believes that the ICC is an essential 
tool  for  fighting  impunity  and  thus  contributes  to 
peaceful  societies.  It  has  played  a  crucial  role  in  the 
maintenance of a rules- and values-based world order. 
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  rules-based  international 
system, the foundation of the international community, 
is 
increasingly  being  challenged  and  questioned. 
International  criminal  justice  needs  greater  political 
support. In that context, we would like to mention the 
particular role played by the Security Council. We call 
on all States, and the Council, to take appropriate action 
to fully cooperate with the Court so that perpetrators can 
be brought to justice and we can put an end to impunity.
We  would  like  to  recall  that  it  is  the  primary 
duty of States to prevent and respond to international 
crimes, and we stress that the ICC complements rather 
than  replaces  national  courts.  Its  complementary 
role  in  cooperation  with  national  justice  systems  and 
its  assistance  in  strengthening  them  are  particularly 
important  to  efforts  to  combat  impunity.  The  ICC’s 
effectiveness  and  efficiency  in  fulfilling  its  mandate 
inevitably  depend  on  States’  full  cooperation  with  it, 
18-34919
9/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
irrespective  of  whether  they  are  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute or not.
We  share  the  concern  of  the  President  of  the 
Court about the fact that the prompt and unconditional 
execution  of  arrest  warrants  of  the  ICC  remains  a 
challenge  today.  When  States  parties  do  not  comply, 
the ICC must be able to rely on the Security Council to 
intervene with its full support. We need to strengthen 
our  common  efforts  to  bring  an  end  to  conflicts  and 
make perpetrators accountable. We must also do more 
to offer important protection to victims and witnesses 
who  have  suffered  from  or  witnessed  crimes.  Here 
we  would  like  to  stress  the  Court’s  important  role  in 
delivering justice to the victims of atrocious crimes by 
providing assistance and awarding reparations.
The Court is currently dealing with more cases and 
situations than ever, covering most of the regions of the 
world. We note that there have been significant judicial 
developments  at  all  stages  of  the  proceedings  before 
the Court. We also note that the ICC has continued to 
expand  its  tasks  relating  to  preliminary  examination 
activities  and  that  two  new  preliminary  examinations 
were opened this year. The increasing number of cases 
and  situations  also  demonstrates  that  there  is  wide 
trust  in  the  ICC  and  testifies  to  the  good  work  it  has 
done.  However,  its  increasing  workload  also  creates 
challenges for the Court in terms of its ability to remain 
efficient and effective.
This year we celebrated the twentieth anniversary 
of the Rome Statute and witnessed the activation of the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression  this 
past  summer.  It  is  up  to  us  to  further  strengthen  the 
Court so that it can fulfil its mandate effectively.
Estonia is committed to continuing to work together 
with  all  partners  to  further  the  work  of  the  ICC  and 
strengthen the system of international criminal justice. 
We call on all Governments that have not yet ratified 
the Rome Statute to do so.
Ms.  Ioannou  (Cyprus):  I  would  like  to  add  some 
remarks to the statement delivered this morning by the 
observer of the European Union (see A/73/PV.27), with 
which my delegation fully aligns itself.
Let  me  start  by  thanking  Judge  Eboe-Osuji, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
for his presentation. It is Cyprus’s firm belief that the 
ICC is an indispensable pillar of the international rules-
based  order  that  humankind  has  struggled  so  hard  to 
build over the past few decades, with the United Nations 
at  its  core.  The  Court  stands  for  every  lofty  purpose 
that  the  United  Nations  was  created  to  serve,  that  is, 
to ensure that there is no impunity for the most serious 
crimes,  establish  accountability  and  thereby  deter  the 
commission of such crimes, highlight restorative justice 
as  an  essential  component  in  achieving  sustainable 
peace and support the victims of such crimes.
In  order  to  effectively  serve  those  objectives,  the 
Court  must  have  a  global  mandate.  However,  as  we 
commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the adoption 
of the Rome Statute and the seventieth anniversary of the 
Nuremberg trials, the ICC is not as close to universality 
as  we  would  like.  Universal  ratification  of  the  Rome 
Statute  remains  the  only  realistic  way  of  effectively 
addressing jurisdictional gaps and thereby dealing with 
current challenges and shortcomings. It is also crucial 
to the application of the principle of equality before the 
law  and  the  effective  deterrence  of  the  most  serious 
crimes under international law. We would therefore like 
to take this opportunity to call on all States that are not 
yet parties to the Rome Statute to ratify it.
Cyprus  reiterates  its  commitment  and  unfailing 
support to the Court, which we have given it since its 
inception,  as  well  as  to  full  cooperation  between  the 
Court, the United Nations and its States Members. We 
are  pleased  that  during  the  reporting  period  Cyprus 
made its first symbolic contribution to the Trust Fund 
for  Victims,  which  must  be  commended  for  its  work. 
We  should  not  forget  that  we  collectively  created 
the  Court  to  provide  justice  to  millions  of  victims  of 
unimaginable atrocities that deeply shock humankind.
As  reflected  in  its  report  (see  A/73/334),  the 
Court  had  another  very  full  year  in  terms  of  judicial 
proceedings, 
investigations,  preliminary 
It 
examinations  and 
continued 
final 
judgments  on  two  cases  before  the  Appeals  Chamber 
and  issued  several  important  decisions  on  reparations 
to victims. The Prosecutor is also engaged in ongoing 
investigations relating to 11 situations.
institutional  developments. 
including 
three  of 
its 
trials,  pronounced 
It  was  significant  that  on  6  September,  the  Court 
issued for the first time a decision on the Prosecution’s 
Request for a Ruling on Jurisdiction under Article 19 
(3) of the Statute, finding that the Court has jurisdiction 
with respect to the alleged deportation of a population 
from  a  State  that  is  not  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  to 
the territory of a State party. In so holding, the Court 
10/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
emphasized  that  the  rationale  for  its  determination 
on  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  relation  to  the  crime 
of  deportation  may  apply  to  other  crimes  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  as  well,  in  circumstances 
where an element of a crime occurs on the territory of 
a State party.
As  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.8,  I 
would like once again to emphasize the importance of 
cooperation with the ICC on the part of States that are 
not party to the Statute, as well as the United Nations 
and  other  international  and  regional  stakeholders,  in 
order to enable it to carry out its activities.
One  of  my  country’s  foreign-policy  priorities  is 
preventing  the  destruction  of  cultural  heritage  and 
illicit trafficking in it. We therefore recognize the great 
significance  of  the  Al  Mahdi  case,  the  first  in  which 
the ICC found an individual guilty of the war crime of 
attacking historic and religious buildings in Timbuktu, 
Mali. We welcome the progress regarding reparations in 
that case. We also welcome the active engagement of the 
Court’s Prosecutor in discussions on the responsibility 
to protect cultural heritage and the signing of a letter of 
intent between the Prosecutor and the Director-General 
of UNESCO, enhancing their cooperation in line with 
their mandates.
Lastly, Cyprus is particularly pleased with the long-
awaited  activation  of  the  amendments  to  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression,  which  is 
the worst form of the illegal use of force. The historic 
significance  of  the  decision  to  activate  the  Kampala 
amendments to the Rome Statute cannot be overstated. 
We  anticipate  the  application  of  the  law  contained 
in  those  amendments  by  the  Court  in  exercising  its 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression,  and  we 
look  forward  to  the  universal  acceptance  of  those 
amendments, so that the international community can 
be assured that no one will be immune from prosecution 
for the commission of that supreme international crime.
Mr. Yelchenko (Ukraine): Ukraine aligns itself with 
the statement delivered this morning by the observer of 
the  European  Union  (see  A/73/PV.27),  and  we  would 
like to add a few remarks in our national capacity.
(ICC)  and 
thank  him 
We  welcome  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court 
for  his 
comprehensive  presentation  of  the  Court’s  annual 
activities (see A/73/334). This year has been significant 
for  the  ICC,  not  only  because  of  its  marking  of  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome 
Statute, but also thanks to the activation of its jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression on 17 July. That represents 
a  huge  step  forward  for  the  international  criminal 
justice  system  and  for  strengthening  the  preventive 
role of the Court, as well as further contributing to the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Ukraine supports the International Criminal Court, 
which  has  proved  its  effectiveness  in  promoting  the 
rule  of  law  and  combating  impunity.  It  is  important 
to  highlight  the  fact  that  Ukraine  was  among  the 
first  States  to  support  the  idea  of  establishing  the 
first  permanent  treaty-based  international  tribunal  to 
deal  with  individual  criminal  responsibility  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  under  international  law.  Ukraine 
actively  participated  in  the  Preparatory  Committee 
on  the  Establishment  of  an  International  Criminal 
Court. In 2000, I had the honour of personally signing 
the  Rome  Statute.  Ukraine  was  also  among  the  first 
non-States parties to ratify the Agreement on Privileges 
and Immunities of the International Criminal Court.
At  the  same  time,  Ukraine  is  not  yet  a  party  to 
the  Rome  Statute.  However,  on  17  April  2014,  the 
Government  of  Ukraine  lodged  a  declaration  under 
article 12 (3) of the Statute, accepting the jurisdiction 
of  the  ICC  over  crimes  committed  on  its  territory 
between  21  November  2013  and  22  February  2014. 
Furthermore, on 8 September 2015, the Government of 
Ukraine  lodged  a  second  declaration  under  article  12 
(3) of the Statute, accepting the jurisdiction of the ICC 
in  relation  to  crimes  committed  on  its  territory  from 
20  February  2014,  that  is,  since  the  beginning  of  the 
military  aggression  of  the  Russian  Federation  against 
Ukraine.  Those  declarations  have  been  made  for  an 
indefinite duration. The ICC will therefore be able to 
exercise  its  jurisdiction  over  such  crimes,  regardless 
of the nationality of the persons who have committed 
them, even if they are citizens of a third State.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  continued 
to  engage  actively  with  Ukrainian  authorities  and 
non-governmental  organizations  with  regard  to  the 
preliminary  examination  of  the  situation  in  Ukraine, 
both  through  consultations  at  the  Court  and  during 
its missions to Ukraine, the most recent of which took 
place in June.
In particular, Ukrainian law-enforcement agencies, 
in  cooperation  with  civil-society  organizations  and 
human  rights  defenders,  have  continued  to  document 
and  provide  the  Court  with  additional  information, 
18-34919
11/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
facts and evidence related to the nature of the existing 
armed  conflict  in  Ukraine  as  an  international  armed 
conflict caused by the armed aggression of the Russian 
Federation  against  Ukraine,  as  well  as  information 
related to the numerous war crimes committed by the 
aggressor State’s armed forces, occupation authorities, 
personnel  and  proxies  in  the  temporarily  occupied 
territories of Ukraine.
We appreciate the work done by the Office of the 
Prosecutor  and  look  forward  to  the  ICC  report  on  its 
preliminary examination activities in 2018.
It is a priority for the Ukrainian authorities and a 
strong demand on the part of the people of Ukraine that 
the organizers, supporters and perpetrators of the grave 
crimes  committed  in  Ukraine  be  held  to  account  and 
prosecuted.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  emphasize 
Ukraine’s  commitment  to  the  fight  against  impunity 
and  reiterate  that  my  country  will  spare  no  effort  to 
ensure that justice is done.
Mr.  Oña  Garcés  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My delegation thanks the President of the International 
Criminal Court, Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, for presenting 
the  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  on 
its  work  carried  out  in  2017  and  2018,  contained  in 
document A/73/334. We also welcome draft resolution 
A/73/L.8,  submitted  today  by  Mexico,  on  the  report 
of the Court, of which we are a sponsor and which we 
hope will be adopted by consensus.
Ecuador  has  consistently  defended  the  role  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and justice and the defence of the 
rule of law, and its function as an essential component 
in  conflict  prevention  and  reparations  to  the  victims 
of  the  most  serious  crimes.  Today  we  reiterate  our 
support  for  the  Court  as  a  mechanism  with  unique 
characteristics that enable it to fight impunity. We urge 
all States present here today to lend their support to the 
Court so that it can effectively and concretely exercise 
its jurisdiction over the most serious crimes of concern 
to the international community.
An  irrevocable  objective  for  Ecuador  is  to  make 
progress  on  universalizing  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We 
must  move  beyond  short-term  political  considerations 
towards  a  genuine  universal  criminal  justice  system 
that  combats  impunity  and  enables  those  responsible 
to  be  punished.  Crimes  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression, which 
are  subject  to  the  complementary  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court,  can  be  best  prosecuted  if  States  universally 
accede  to  the  Statute  and  provide  the  necessary 
cooperation to the Court. However, as we have already 
pointed out, that universality does not just concern the 
universal  accession  by  States  to  the  Rome  Statute;  it 
pertains to every part of the world and to all the crimes 
against humanity that are taking place in the world at 
this  very  moment.  It  does  not  have  double  standards, 
and it extends beyond political or economic interests, 
which  could  otherwise  lead  us  to  evaluate  similar 
situations with different criteria.
In that regard, we recognize and support the ongoing 
work of the Court, which, since its establishment, has 
opened  a  total  of  26  cases  involving  41  suspects  or 
accused.  We  also  give  our  full  support  to  Ms.  Fatou 
Bensouda,  Prosecutor  of  the  Court,  whose  work  has 
contributed to the Court’s recent historical achievements 
and enabled it to issue new arrest warrants against two 
persons and continue three trials in the reporting period. 
We  support  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor’s  ongoing 
investigations into 11 situations and its willingness to 
open new preliminary investigations and examinations 
in  all  parts  of  the  world  where  necessary.  Those 
landmark  actions  undercut  the  misguided  criticism 
that  has  been  voiced  of  selectivity  and  bias  in  the 
Court’s investigations. We deplore States’ withdrawal 
or notifications of withdrawal from the Rome Statute. 
We support all efforts to achieve the universality of the 
Statute, provided that they do not require concessions 
or weaken the Court’s scope or jurisdiction.
Ecuador  incorporated  into  its  2008  Constitution 
and domestic criminal legislation the mandatory nature 
of measures and penalties against the crime of genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes,  the  enforced 
disappearance of persons and the crime of aggression. 
In  our  country,  no  amnesties  or  statutes  of  limitation 
can  be  applied  to  those  crimes.  That  fully  coincides 
with the Rome Statute, whose very raison d’être is the 
fight against impunity. We therefore welcome the fact 
that the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute 
decided by consensus to activate the Court’s jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression, which entered into force 
on  17  July.  Ecuador  is  in  the  process  of  ratifying  the 
Kampala amendments, and we call on everyone to work 
together to achieve their universality.
I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
position with regard to the principle of complementarity 
as  it  concerns  the  Court  and  its  jurisdiction.  We 
12/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
any 
Ecuador 
supports 
attach  particular  importance  to  complementarity,  as 
a  mechanism  that  enables  States  to  cooperate  in  the 
fight against impunity and involves national capacity-
building,  which  is  critical.  Through  complementarity, 
the  International  Criminal  Court  supports  national 
legislations. It is not a substitute for them.
initiative 
at 
strengthening the fight against impunity. That is why 
in  June  we  successfully  hosted  a  high-level  regional 
seminar with the International Criminal Court, during 
which  11  Latin  American  Governments  signed  the 
Quito  Declaration  on  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  In  that  same  spirit  of  commitment,  I 
am  pleased  to  announce  that  in  the  coming  days  the 
Government of Ecuador will sign the code of conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes.
aimed 
My delegation also believes that it is essential for the 
Court to have the necessary funding to enable it to meet 
the objectives set out in the Rome Statute, especially at 
a time when the judges’ caseloads, the investigations in 
the Office of the Prosecutor and the general workload 
of the Court have increased. In addition, we believe it 
is essential to strengthen the mechanisms for obtaining 
resources and improving the international community’s 
cooperation with regard to the Trust Fund for Victims, 
given  the  fact  that  the  Fund  assists  the  work  of  the 
Court with regard to a fundamental element of justice, 
the protection of victims and reparations for the crimes 
dealt with in the Rome Statute.
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its 
support for the efforts of the United Nations system to 
improve the channels of cooperation with the Office of 
the Prosecutor and other organs of the Court. We call 
on  Member  States  to  provide  every  possible  support 
to the fulfilment and execution of the orders issued by 
the  relevant  authorities  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. We welcome all the activities undertaken during 
the year to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of 
the  Rome  Statute.  They  send  a  powerful  message  of 
support  for  the  Court,  highlighting  the  importance  of 
that unique judicial institution’s mandate and the need 
for a more vigorous and effective Court in the face of 
the  alarming  proliferation  of  the  most  serious  crimes 
around the world.
Last  but  not  least,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express special appreciation for the work of the Registry 
of the Court and the secretariat of the Assembly of States 
Parties, whose efficiency and effective coordination and 
support have made it possible to achieve these results.
Ms.  Telalian  (Greece):  Greece  aligns  itself  with 
the statement delivered earlier by the European Union, 
and I would now like to make some further comments 
in my national capacity.
First,  we  want  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court, Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, 
for  his  comprehensive  briefing.  We  also  thank  the 
International  Criminal  Court  for  its  annual  report  to 
the  United  Nations  (see  A/73/334),  which  gives  us  an 
opportunity to take stock of the achievements and the 
progress made by the Court during the reporting period 
in the fight against impunity and also to reflect on the 
challenges that it faces.
the 
This  year  we  are  celebrating 
twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute.  On 
17  July  1998  in  Rome,  the  international  community 
took  a  crucial  step  towards  the  establishment  of  a 
permanent  international  criminal  court  that  would 
be  able  potentially  to  intervene  as  a  complementary 
mechanism 
serious 
international crimes, while also serving as a powerful 
deterrent to the commission of such crimes.
involving 
situation 
in  any 
the  establishment  of 
Having  from  the  very  beginning  wholeheartedly 
supported 
the  International 
Criminal  Court,  on  the  occasion  of  this  anniversary 
Greece would like to reiterate its support for the Court 
and its legitimacy, as well as to express its commitment 
to  the  Court’s  independence  and  to  the  integrity  of 
the Rome Statute. In that respect, we regret the recent 
withdrawals from the Statute and call on all States that 
have not yet joined it to do so in order to expand its reach 
and deepen its work so as to ensure that the most heinous 
international crimes do not go unpunished. We are also 
ready  to  continue  assisting  the  Court  in  fulfilling  its 
mandate  in  an  increasingly  complicated  international 
environment, radically different from that of 20 years 
ago, when its Statute was adopted. We firmly believe 
that  the  Court  must  be  able  to  act  without  hindrance 
within  the  legal  parameters  defined  by  its  founding 
treaty.  We  also  encourage  the  Court  to  continue  to 
review its judicial and administrative processes in order 
to enhance its effectiveness, maximize the impact of its 
work and live up to the expectations of the international 
community and of the victims of crimes falling within 
its jurisdiction.
18-34919
13/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
As the report of the Court demonstrates, effective 
cooperation  with  the  Court  remains  a  key  challenge 
to  its  fulfilment  of  its  mandate.  Furthermore,  while 
Security Council referrals may help expand the reach 
of  the  Court  to  areas  not  falling  within  the  scope  of 
its  jurisdiction,  it  is  crucial  to  have  active  follow-up 
for  such  referrals  in  order  to  ensure  cooperation  with 
the Court and make full use of the possibilities that the 
Rome Statute offers in the fight against impunity. We 
therefore share the view expressed in the report that a 
structured dialogue between the Court and the Security 
Council could improve the implementation of referral 
resolutions and enhance accountability.
Last  but  not  least,  Greece  welcomes  the  historic 
activation  during  the  reporting  period  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression,  which 
completes  the  regulatory  framework  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and  reinforces  the  prohibition  and  prevention 
of  the  illegal  use  of  force  in  international  relations, 
thereby  help  to  strengthen  the  relevant  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Ms.  Byrne  Nason  (Ireland):  Ireland  associates 
itself with the statement made earlier by the observer 
of the European Union on behalf of its member States 
(see A/73/PV.27).
I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
International  Criminal  Court  for  its  annual  report 
(see  A/73/334)  to  the  United  Nations  and  to  thank  its 
President, Judge Eboe-Osuji, for his presentation today 
(see A/73/PV.27), which outlines a year of significant 
developments  in  relation  to  many  aspects  of  the 
Court’s work.
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  provides  an 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  achievement  that  is  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  Twenty  years  ago,  the 
international  community  set  up  the  first  permanent 
International  Criminal  Court  with  jurisdiction  to 
prosecute  individuals  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of 
concern  to  the  international  community  when  States 
are unwilling or unable to do so. In so doing, we made 
it  clear  that  there  are  certain  lines  that  should  not  be 
crossed  and  that  if  they  are  crossed,  there  must  be 
accountability  for  the  perpetrators  and  justice  for 
the  victims.  The  victims  must  be  a  central  focus  of 
our concerns.
My  country, 
the 
International 
Criminal  Court  as  the  cornerstone  of  international 
Ireland,  sees 
criminal  justice.  The  annual  report,  outlining  as  it 
does  the  range  of  situations  under  examination,  the 
various  ongoing  investigations  and  the  cases  being 
processed, demonstrates how very necessary the Court 
is,  in  our  view.  Over  its  lifetime,  it  has  been  subject 
to much criticism, some of which may be justified, of 
course, because no institution is perfect. Constructive 
criticism  is  both  warranted  and  helpful.  However, 
some of the harshest criticism directed at the Court is 
not motivated by some failure of the Court to fulfil its 
mandate  but  precisely  because  it  is  doing  its  duty  to 
combat impunity for the most serious crimes of concern 
to  the  international  community.  Echoing  the  words 
of  Simon  Coveney,  Ireland’s  Tánaiste-Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade 
with  responsibility  for  Brexit,  in  his  address  to  the 
Assembly last month (see A/73/PV.13), I want to take 
this opportunity today to reaffirm Ireland’s continuing 
commitment  to  working  to  ensure  that  the  Court  can 
fulfil the mandate that it has been given.
This year we also witnessed a further significant and 
historic development whereby the Court’s jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression was activated as of 17 July. 
Ireland  welcomes  that  important  development,  which 
sends a clear signal about the fundamental importance 
of the prohibition of the use of force and the overriding 
imperative of preserving world peace. Ireland took the 
step  of  ratifying  the  amendment  to  the  Rome  Statute 
on  the  crime  of  aggression  just  a  few  weeks  ago,  on 
27 September.
It  is  always  important  to  recall  that  the  Court 
does  not  operate  in  a  vacuum.  It  is  very  much  a  key 
element in the system of international criminal justice. 
As  is  clear  from  the  annual  report,  the  Court  has  a 
network of relationships with the United Nations, other 
international  organizations,  States  and  civil  society. 
Cooperation on the part of the international community 
as  a  whole  is  essential  for  its  success.  In  this  debate, 
we believe that it is particularly relevant to reflect on 
the  relationship  that  the  Court  has  with  the  United 
Nations. Justice and peace are at the very core of why 
both  organizations  exist.  Ireland  very  much  shares 
the view that the Court and the United Nations, while 
clearly  having  differing  mandates,  can  and  should 
reinforce  one  another  in  fulfilling  those  mandates.  It 
is  encouraging  to  see  a  reference  in  paragraph  65  of 
the report to ongoing cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  the  Court,  including  crucial  support  for 
14/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
the  Court  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  senior 
leadership, up to and including the Secretary-General.
The  report  also  references  the  importance  of 
cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  Security 
Council. Ireland was pleased that on 6 July the States 
parties  to  the  Court  serving  on  the  Security  Council, 
led  by  the  Netherlands,  convened  an  Arria  Formula 
meeting to discuss relations between the Court and the 
Council. Many helpful suggestions were put forward at 
that  meeting  about  how  to  strengthen  the  interaction 
and  cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the  Court,  and  we  believe  they  deserve  further 
consideration. In particular, Ireland would welcome the 
further exploration of possible mechanisms to improve 
the support that the Council can provide to the Court in 
relation to the Court’s work on situations referred to it 
by the Council pursuant to Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
A key issue that the Security Council should address 
is cases of non-cooperation by States in relation to such 
referrals.  Fifteen  such  cases  have  been  referred  to  it, 
with no substantive response, according to the report. 
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  the  Court  must  receive 
adequate financial support when situations are referred 
to it. Those issues are undoubtedly challenging, but it is 
necessary to address them so as to enable the Court to 
do what the Council mandates it to do when referring 
such situations to it — delivering justice in situations 
of  grave  concern  with  a  potential  to  destabilize 
international peace and security.
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  Ireland’s 
firm view that there must be unity of purpose within the 
international  community  in  prosecuting  mass  crimes 
through  the  international  criminal  justice  system. 
There should be consistency in the referral of situations 
to the Court. Ireland supports the reform of the Security 
Council veto power and believes that at a minimum, the 
use  of  the  veto  must  be  restricted  in  accordance  with 
the  French-Mexican  initiative  and  the  cross-regional 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group’s 
code of conduct regarding Security Council action on 
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
I also want to highlight the emphasis given to victims 
by the Rome Statute. One of the welcome innovations 
in the Statute was the manner in which that document 
sought  to  address  the  needs  of  victims.  One  of  those 
innovations  was  the  establishment  of  the  Trust  Fund 
for  Victims.  The  focus  of  the  Trust  Fund’s  critically 
important work is to deliver tangible reparative justice 
to  victims  and  their  families  and  communities.  It  is 
important to remember that the Trust Fund depends on 
voluntary  contributions  for  its  work  and  that  without 
active support from States parties, its vital work would 
stall.  Ireland  is,  therefore,  pleased  to  make  a  regular 
annual contribution to the Trust Fund, and this year we 
have increased our contribution. Also, as members will 
see in the annual report, in February Ireland undertook 
a joint initiative with the Trust Fund and conducted a 
monitoring mission in northern Uganda. The purpose of 
the mission was to assess the impact of the Trust Fund’s 
work and promote it. The President of the Assembly of 
States  Parties  and  representatives  of  10  States  parties 
took  part  in  that  mission.  We  firmly  believe  that 
delivering  on  real  and  effective  reparative  justice  is 
critical to the implementation of the Rome Statute. We 
echo the Trust Fund’s call ton States parties and others 
to consider making new and increased contributions.
In  conclusion,  Ireland,  like  others,  is  fully  aware 
that, in order to implement the principles of the Rome 
Statute, it is absolutely essential that we work together. 
We  are  committed  to  the  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  The  greater  the  reach  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  the  greater  the  chance  that  the  core 
principles  underlying  the  Statute  will  be  respected. 
We  encourage  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
consider becoming party to the Statute.
Mr.  Bermúdez  Álvarez  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  Uruguay  is  grateful  for 
the  full  report  on  the  activities  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  covering  the  period  from  1  August 
2017 to 31 July 2018 (see A/73/334).
Important  events  have  taken  place  during  that 
period,  particularly  the  activation  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression  by  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties,  which  met  in  December 
2017.  The  jurisdiction  entered  into  force  on  17  July, 
which coincided with the twentieth anniversary of the 
Rome Statute. That activation of the Court’s jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression is a cause for celebration, 
as it is a victory for the ideal of justice and law. Despite 
the  opposition  of  several  States,  which  had  no  legal 
grounds, consensus was finally reached.
Despite 
the  need 
its  shortcomings  and 
for 
improvement,  we  need  an  independent  Court  for 
prosecuting the most atrocious crimes, detailed in article 
5 of the Rome Statute. The International Criminal Court 
18-34919
15/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
has been a milestone in the international community’s 
struggle against impunity and the most serious crimes 
against human beings and their integrity and rights. It 
was made possible because we prioritized international 
human  rights  law  and  international  humanitarian  law 
with a focus on the victims of such crimes.
Attacks  on  women  and  children,  slavery  and  the 
use and recruitment of children, for example, are some 
of  the  cases  that  may  now  be  subject  to  the  Court’s 
judgment. Uruguay has always prioritized the defence 
of human rights, both domestically and internationally. 
That is why we helped to set up the Court and were part 
of the negotiation process that led to its establishment. 
We were one of the first countries to ratify the Rome 
Statute,  through  our  adoption  in  2006  of  Law  No. 
18026, on cooperation with the International Criminal 
Court. We were also the first country in Latin America 
to ratify the Kampala amendments, in September 2013. 
The importance of the Court and its mission impels us 
to support any action aimed at improving its operation. 
We would like to remind the States parties to the Rome 
Statute of the need to cooperate with the Court to ensure 
its ability to fulfil its mandate. We also believe that it 
is important to raise awareness about the importance of 
the Court and therefore about the importance of States 
acceding to the Rome Statute by ratifying the Statute 
and its amendments.
Uruguay believes that cooperation between States 
and the International Criminal Court is essential if the 
Court is to achieve its objectives and enable us to put 
an  end  to  impunity  for  perpetrators  of  the  cruel  acts 
detailed  in  the  Rome  Statute.  We  must  bear  in  mind 
the work, independence and impartiality of the judges, 
which applies to the Court as a whole, and the difficult 
work that they do in carrying out their duties.
For Uruguay, combating crimes against humanity, 
war  crimes,  genocide  and  crimes  of  aggression 
perpetrated against the rights of men, women, children 
and  groups  is  vital.  It  is  important,  above  all,  in  the 
current  difficult  context  when  there  is  a  lack  of 
cooperation on maintaining maximum support for the 
Court’s work, which is essential if we wish to ensure 
that human rights, human dignity and the rule of law 
are respected at the international level.
Mr.  Arriola  Ramírez  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay 
thanks  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  Judge  Eboe-Osuji,  for  presenting  the  annual 
report of the Court (see A/73/334) and commends the 
Court and the Office of the Prosecutor for their work in 
the period from 2017 to 2018.
The  delegation  of  Paraguay  is  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.8,  which  is  under  consideration  by 
the General Assembly today.
For Paraguay, the establishment of an International 
Criminal Court was a very important milestone in the 
history of humankind, as the international community 
sought to address and overcome impunity for the most 
atrocious  crimes,  ensure  justice  and  reparations  for 
victims  of  international  crimes  within  the  framework 
of  international  law,  and  realize  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Paraguay  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  international 
criminal  justice  and  advocates  the  universalization 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  to  which  it  is  a  party,  and  of 
the  Kampala  amendments,  which  are  currently 
under  legislative  review  by  our  National  Congress,  a 
procedure  required  by  our  Constitution  prior  to  their 
approval and ratification.
In 
its  Constitution,  Paraguay  acknowledges 
international law and is governed by the principles that 
flow  from  it.  We  acknowledge  a  supranational  legal 
order that among other things provides guarantees for 
human  rights,  and  we  prohibit  and  declare  genocide, 
torture,  the  forced  disappearance  of  persons  and 
kidnapping  and  homicide  for  political  reasons  to  be 
crimes that are not subject to any statute of limitations.
The law regarding the national implementation of 
the Rome Statute categorizes and establishes a gradation 
of  penalties  for  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity 
and  war  crimes,  distinguishes  between  national  and 
universal  jurisdiction,  and  specifies  the  limitations 
of  national  jurisdiction,  which  are  provisions  that  are 
complemented by general criminal legislation.
Through their jurisprudence, Paraguay’s courts have 
also implemented the principle of universal jurisdiction. 
One notable example is Judgment No. 195/2008 of the 
Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Paraguay, 
which established the irrevocability of horrendous and 
repudiated crimes, such as torture, thereby enshrining 
a  high  standard  of  protection  of  human  rights  and 
reaffirming  that  violations  of  fundamental  human 
rights must not go unpunished.
The Republic of Paraguay offers a legal framework 
that  concerts  with  international  criminal  justice,  and 
16/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
since  2003  we  have  extended  a  standing  invitation 
to  international  organizations  that  wish  to  observe 
the  efforts  undertaken  in  Paraguay  by  Government 
agencies  and  civil-society  organizations  in  relation  to 
the promotion of human rights.
Paraguay considers that in its exercise of universal 
jurisdiction and under the principle of complementarity, 
in situations of serious and systematic violations against 
humanity, the Court may represent a light of hope and 
justice for a people oppressed by authoritarian regimes, 
by  holding  those  responsible  for  such  violations  to 
account before international criminal justice. Paraguay 
therefore calls on all States, regardless of their status 
as  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  its  amendments, 
and  on  all  actors  in  the  international  community,  to 
cooperate with the International Criminal Court so as 
to  ensure  its  independence  and  impartiality,  facilitate 
its investigations and execute its decisions, with a view 
to  trying  the  defendants,  with  full  respect  for  their 
fundamental human rights, thereby bringing to account 
those who have committed heinous crimes and securing 
reparations to their victims.
Finally,  Paraguay  strives  to  bring  together  other 
existing institutions and mechanisms for the realization 
of international criminal justice with the International 
Criminal Court. We trust in the efforts of international, 
global,  regional  and  subregional  bodies  to  monitor 
human rights situations around the world and document 
possible  cases  of  atrocity  crimes.  We  emphasize  the 
importance  of  optimizing  the  cooperative  relations 
between  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
Security Council in the follow-up to the cases referred 
by  the  Council  to  the  Court  and  in  the  execution  of 
the  Court’s  decisions  by  the  Council.  We  believe  that 
the discussion of issues of mutual interest by the two 
bodies,  and  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  relevance 
of  the  work  of  the  Council’s  Sanctions  Committees 
to  the  enforcement  of  the  Court’s  decisions,  will  be 
productive  to  that  end.  We  also  appreciate  the  work 
of  non-governmental  organizations,  civil  society  and 
academia  aimed  at  achieving  the  universalization  of 
the  Rome  Statute  and  its  amendments  and  at  raising 
awareness of the virtues of the multilateral system of 
international criminal justice.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  Georgia  aligns  itself 
with the statement made earlier by the observer of the 
European  Union  (see  A/73/PV.27),  and  in  addition,  I 
would like to make a few remarks in my national capacity.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge 
Eboe-Osuji,  for  his  comprehensive  presentation,  and 
we  welcome  the  report  of  the  Court  (see  A/73/334). 
The  strengthening  of  universality  and  cooperation 
with  the  Court  are  key  factors  enabling  the  ICC  to 
work  effectively  to  end  impunity  for  the  perpetrators 
of the most egregious crimes that threaten international 
peace, security and well-being. We believe that the role 
of the ICC is to complement rather than replace existing 
national  judicial  systems.  The  primary  responsibility 
for investigating and prosecuting crimes still remains 
with individual States.
As we mark the twentieth anniversary of the adoption 
of the Rome Statute, the international community must 
take a collective stance on the fight against impunity. 
We  welcome  the  milestone  achievement  represented 
by  the  activation  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the 
crime of aggression on 17 July of this year, the Day of 
International Criminal Justice. In the volatile world we 
all live in, it is vital that we all unequivocally support 
the  international  justice  system.  The  Rome  Statute 
essentially created a permanent and global institution 
that  embodies  the  Nuremberg  principles  aimed  at 
fighting  impunity  and  preventing  the  most  heinous 
crimes.  It  is  time  to  reflect  on  the  challenges,  take 
stock of the achievements and unite in echoing the call 
of “Never again”.
Since the ratification of the Rome Statute in 2003, 
Georgia  has  been  cooperating  effectively  with  the 
International Criminal Court. As an enabling factor in 
our  fully  fledged  cooperation  with  the  ICC,  we  have 
put in place legislation to implement the Statute at the 
national level. Furthermore, in December 2017 an ICC 
field office was opened in Georgia to support various 
organs  of  the  Court  and  cooperate  with  stakeholders 
on  the  ground  and  relevant  United  Nations  agencies. 
In that connection, I would like to underline that just 
a  few  days  ago  Georgia  hosted  a  high-level  regional 
ICC  conference  designed  to  promote  and  enhance 
cooperation  between  the  Court  and  countries  from 
Eastern Europe and Western Asia.
In  conclusion,  let  me  stress  Georgia’s  support 
for  the  recommendations  in  the  current  report  of  the 
Court  regarding  the  necessity  of  investigating  crimes 
committed in Georgia during the Russian aggression of 
2008, and in that context, we support the Prosecutor’s 
call  on  the  Russian  Federation  to  cooperate  with 
the  Court  on  its  investigations.  I  want  to  once  again 
18-34919
17/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
reiterate my country’s unwavering support for the ICC 
as an important tool in the international community’s 
fight against impunity and a significant contribution to 
the maintenance of peaceful societies.
Ms.  Stresiná  (Romania):  We  would  like  to  thank 
the President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), 
Judge Eboe-Osuji, for his eloquent presentation of the 
Court’s annual report (see A/73/334).
Romania aligns itself with the statement delivered 
this morning by the observer of the European Union 
(see A/73/PV.27).
Twenty  years  ago,  more  than  120  States  made  a 
collective  commitment  to  ending  impunity  for  the 
most serious crimes. The adoption of the Rome Statute 
changed the paradigm of international criminal justice, 
sending a strong signal that perpetrators of such horrific 
crimes can and must be held accountable.
This  year’s  anniversary  offered  us  a  good 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  achievements  and  the 
lessons learned in the functioning of the world’s only 
permanent  international  criminal  judicial  institution. 
The  ICC  has  made  significant  progress  in  developing 
itself  further.  With  active  cases  that  are  in  all  stages 
of proceedings, the Court has developed its own body 
of  jurisprudence,  including  standards  that  may  set 
benchmarks for the future. In that context, we should 
underscore  its  contribution  to  the  establishment  of 
sexual  violence  in  conflict  and  the  destruction  of 
cultural heritage and property as international crimes.
The  growing  deterrent  effect  of  the  ICC  is 
increasingly evident. The investigation of mass crimes 
is now the expected norm, and the input of the Court to 
that end cannot be ignored. The harsher tone of its critics 
is merely a reflection of its relevance. As an independent 
body  working  in  a  tense  political  landscape,  the 
resolve of the Court should not be affected by volatile 
relationships with States and the implicit challenges of 
securing cooperation and resources.
While we have confidence in the non-discriminatory 
application of the relevant criteria in selecting cases and 
situations,  the  Prosecutor’s  role  is  extremely  difficult 
and unavoidably prone to controversy. However, it is up 
to the Court to ensure fair proceedings so as to protect 
the credibility and effectiveness of the ICC. From that 
point  of  view,  we  would  like  to  salute  the  ongoing 
efforts of the Court to implement the necessary reforms 
aimed at improving its effectiveness.
At the same time, we would like to emphasize the 
victim-centred  approach  to  criminal  justice  as  one  of 
the  innovations  brought  in  by  the  ICC.  We  therefore 
further  encourage  the  Court  and  States  to  focus  on 
the  components  of  victim  participation  and  effective 
representation  by  tackling  existing  challenges  in  that 
field.  Victims’  confidence  in  the  Court  will  remain  a 
strong indicator of its legitimacy.
The  ICC  is  not  free  of  problems.  It  is  obviously 
important  to  discuss  the  various  concerns  about  its 
performance  constructively.  However,  any  criticism 
should take into consideration the limitations imposed 
by  the  Court’s  treaty-bound  competence,  its  reliance 
on State support and its external financial constraints. 
From  that  point  of  view,  we  should  remind  ourselves 
that the ICC is an essential piece of the Rome Statute 
system,  but  not  the  only  one.  It  is  a  court  of  last 
resort  that  was  not  meant  to,  and  cannot,  solve  every 
international  crime  committed  in  this  world.  The 
strength of the system should actually rest on the work 
of the national courts, which serve as the first line of 
accountability for the most egregious crimes.
As a  co-focal  point  for  this  topic  since  2017, 
Romania  strongly  supports  the  implementation  of 
the  complementarity  principle,  which  represents  the 
cornerstone of the ICC machinery. Our aim f or the long 
run should be to reduce the number of cases submitted 
to  the  Court  as  more  Member  States  are  willing  and 
able  to  investigate  and  prosecute  crimes  within  their 
jurisdictions.  We  therefore  echo  the  Court  in  its  plea 
to  the  relevant  actors  to  include  capacity-building 
elements for judicial reform in assistance programmes 
devoted to the development of the rule of law.
Furthermore, we must be constantly aware that the 
Court depends on State cooperation in order to function 
effectively. In that context, we would like to reiterate 
Romania’s  support  for  the  Court  and  add  our  voice 
to  the  calls  for  enhanced  cooperation  between  States 
parties and the ICC, in accordance with the obligations 
set forth in the Rome Statute.
The potential for improving relations between the 
Security  Council  and  the  Court  in  support  of  dealing 
better with the gravest crimes that threaten international 
peace  and  security  remains  unaddressed.  After  the 
Arria Formula meeting of the Council in July this year, 
we encourage the continuation of a more structured and 
action-oriented dialogue on the matter.
18/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
Romania  welcomes  last  year’s  historic  consensus 
decision  to  activate  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the 
crime  of  aggression,  which  reinforces  the  prohibition 
of the illegal use of force as enshrined in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  While  we  can  continue  the 
discussion  about  potentially  burdening  the  ICC  with 
more  expectations,  in  our  view  the  main  added  value 
of that decision lies, in its symbolic power, by forcing 
both policymakers and citizens to focus on the question 
of  the  legality  of  wars,  and  more  specifically,  on  the 
responsibility of individuals for them.
the  universality  of 
In  conclusion,  Romania  shares  the  view  that  the 
adoption of the ICC Statute constitutes one of the most 
important achievements in the fight against impunity. 
Achieving 
the  Rome  Statute 
would  be  a  powerful  tool  for  preventing  violations  of 
international  criminal  law  and,  at  the  same  time,  a 
significant  contribution  to  establishing  lasting  peace 
and  healthier  societies,  in  accordance  with  the  core 
principles and values of the United Nations.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  We  would  like  to  begin,  as  every  other 
speaker  has  done,  by  thanking  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Eboe-Osuji, 
for his briefing on the report of the Court (see A/73/334), 
which  details  the  conduct  of  both  administrative  and 
judicial  activities  and  has  been  transmitted  to  the 
General Assembly in accordance with article 6 of the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court and paragraph 28 
of resolution 72/3.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  commemoration  on 
17  July  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Court’s 
founding  treaty,  the  Rome  Statute,  and  we  stress  the 
importance of the Court’s mandate for the international 
community,  as  well  as  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
international criminal justice system.
We  were  pleased  to  read  that  in  the  past  year  the 
International Criminal Court has continued to maintain 
a  heavy  workload  with  the  issuance  of  new  warrants 
of arrest against two persons, the continuation of three 
trials and the delivery of final judgments in two cases 
before  the  Appeals  Chamber,  as  well  as  a  number  of 
important decisions on reparations to victims, a focus 
of  the  Court’s  activities  that  represents  one  of  its 
greatest strengths. In addition, the Prosecutor opened a 
new investigation, and there are 10 other situations that 
remain open.
In  that  regard,  while  we  are  aware  that  in  recent 
years the International Criminal Court has achieved a 
lot,  we  also  recognize  that  much  remains  to  be  done. 
The road ahead is full of challenges and opportunities 
for  the  Court’s  efforts  to  prosecute  serious  human 
rights  violations  and  bring  to  justice  those  who  have 
committed  crimes  under  the  Rome  Statute.  It  also 
serves as a deterrent to those crimes.
In  view  of  the  above,  our  country  calls  on  States 
to ratify the Kampala amendments, and we especially 
welcome the activation in July of the Court’s jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression, in line with the decision 
adopted by the Assembly of States Parties in New York 
in December 2017. That step reinforces the jurisdiction 
and competence of the International Criminal Court.
As  part  of  our  commitment  to  the  international 
community  and  the  International  Criminal  Court  to 
strengthening  the  Court’s  normative  and  operational 
structure,  we  have  initiated  domestic  efforts  under 
our national legislation to ratify the Agreement on the 
Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal 
Court  as  soon  as  possible,  as  we  are  convinced  that 
such  an  instrument  will  facilitate  its  fulfilment  of  its 
purposes as well as its functions.
Finally,  I  want  to  conclude  by  reiterating  my 
country’s  deep  support  and  commitment  to  the  work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  we  urge 
those who have not yet ratified the Rome Statute and 
its amendments to do so, with a view to ensuring the 
full  universality  of  the  Statute  in  the  near  future  and 
promoting justice and accountability at the global level.
in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji on his election as President of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC) and thank him 
for presenting his report (see A/73/334) on the activities 
of the Court over the past year.
Mr.  García  Moritán 
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the 
presentation  of  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/73/333  and  A/73/335)  on  the  implementation  of 
article  3  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  on  the  expenses  incurred  and  reimbursements 
received  in  connection  with  the  assistance  provided 
to  the  International  Criminal  Court.  Argentina  also 
supports  the  adoption  of  this  year’s  draft  resolution 
(A/73/L.8) on the report of the International Criminal 
Court,  which  coincides  with  the  presentation  of 
18-34919
19/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
the  report  by  its  President  and  today’s  debate  on  the 
agenda item.
In  its  remarkable  activity  since  the  presentation 
of the previous report (see A/72/PV.36), the Court has 
once again demonstrated that it is in fact a fundamental 
tool  in  the  fight  against  impunity,  the  promotion  of 
human rights and the consolidation of the rule of law at 
the international level.
Within the framework of the twentieth anniversary 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  Argentina  renews  its  ongoing 
commitment  to  the  Court  by  remaining  actively 
involved in the mechanisms envisaged by the Assembly 
of States Parties and through its support for the goal of 
achieving the universality of the Statute.
Argentina has demonstrated its support in various 
ways,  but  we  are  particularly  proud  to  have  been  the 
first  State  party  to  conclude  the  four  cooperation 
agreements  suggested  by 
the  Court.  Similarly, 
Argentina  has  also  ratified  the  Kampala  amendments 
on the crime of aggression and therefore welcomes the 
activation  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  that  crime. 
That  activation  completes  the  legal  edifice  that  is  the 
Court,  reaffirming  the  prevalence  of  law  and  justice 
over the use of force in international relations.
I would now like to discuss the relationship between 
the  Court  and  the  United  Nations.  The  relationship 
between our Organization and the Court is crucial, while 
it must always respect the judicial independence of the 
Court. In that context, we reiterate some of the concerns 
that Argentina has regarding the referral of situations 
by  the  Security  Council  to  the  Court,  particularly  in 
terms of their financial cost. That cost has so far been 
borne exclusively by States parties to the Statute of the 
Court,  despite  the  clear  rules  contained  in  the  Rome 
Statute  and  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  the  United  Nations, 
which  state  that  the  costs  of  such  referrals  must  be 
borne by the United Nations.
The  fight  against  impunity  is  an  objective  shared 
by the States parties to the Rome Statute and the United 
Nations, but that objective must be accompanied by a 
commitment to providing the Court with the resources 
necessary  to  fulfil  its  functions.  Lack  of  action  in 
that  regard  could  jeopardize  the  sustainability  of  the 
Court’s  investigations  and  damage  the  Organization’s 
credibility.  We  also  believe  that  there  is  scope  for  a 
closer  and  better  relationship  between  the  Court  and 
the  Security  Council,  especially  with  regard  to  the 
work  of  its  subsidiary  bodies,  such  as  the  Sanctions 
Committees  and  the  Working  Group  on  Children  and 
Armed Conflict.
In  conclusion,  Argentina  wants  to  emphasize  the 
International  Criminal  Court’s  contribution  to  the 
objectives  of  this  Organization  in  its  fight  against 
impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern.  Indeed,  the  Court’s  contribution  to  the 
configuration  of  a  multilateral  system  that  aims  to 
promote respect for human rights and achieve a lasting 
peace,  in  accordance  with  international  law  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, is unquestionable.
The suffering of the victims of the most atrocious 
crimes  is  humankind’s  greatest  shame.  We  cannot 
allow this century to pass without providing concrete 
responses  to  those  violations.  That  will  enable  us  to 
work  together  to  build  a  more  just  world  under  the 
primacy of international law.
Mr.  Islam 
(Bangladesh):  Bangladesh 
thanks 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC)  for  his  comprehensive  report  with  its  valuable 
insights (see A/73/334). We commend his observations 
concerning  the  standing  of  the  ICC  vis-à-vis  national 
sovereignty, a relationship worthy of the attention of all 
Member States.
Bangladesh is pleased once again to be a sponsor 
of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.8,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court”.  We  have  taken  due 
note  of  the  updates  on  the  judicial  and  prosecutorial 
activities  of  the  Court,  as  well  as  on  the  status  of 
preliminary examinations.
During the reporting period, we followed the ruling 
by the Pre-trial Chamber of the ICC on the issue of the 
forced  deportation  of  the  Rohingya  population  from 
Myanmar’s Rakhine state to Bangladesh with particular 
interest, in our capacity as a State party to the Rome 
Statute. We acknowledge the sua moto initiative by the 
Office of the Prosecutor to seek the Pre-trial Chamber’s 
ruling in that regard, especially at a time when the Court 
itself  faces  challenges  on  multiple  fronts.  Bangladesh 
considered  it  a  solemn  responsibility  as  a  State  party 
to respond to the letter sent by the Pre-trial Chamber 
within  the  set  deadline.  Against  the  backdrop  of  our 
bilateral  efforts  with  Myanmar  to  ensure  the  safe, 
dignified and sustainable return of the Rohingya people 
to Rakhine state, we consider the Pre-trial Chamber’s 
20/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
ruling concerning the possible denial of their right to 
return to be an important development.
Bangladesh  will  continue  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court  in  the  wake  of  the  Pre-trial  Chamber’s  ruling, 
while  we  want  to  underscore  the  need  for  ensuring 
accountability for the entire spectrum of atrocity crimes 
committed  against  the  Rohingya  by  the  Myanmar 
security forces and the non-State actors concerned. In 
that context, we recall the responsibility of the Security 
Council  in  the  face  of  the  authoritative  evidence  of 
the gravest crimes under international law committed 
against the Rohingya, which has been furnished by the 
United Nations Independent International Fact-finding 
Mission  on  Myanmar.  We  acknowledge  the  Human 
Rights  Council’s  decision  to  act  on  the  Fact-finding 
Mission’s  report  (A/HRC/39/64)  and  to  establish  an 
ongoing independent mechanism to collate, analyse and 
preserve  evidence  for  facilitating  the  prosecution  of 
crimes through the appropriate national or international 
judicial mechanisms. It is crucial to the restoration of 
confidence  among  the  forcibly  displaced  Rohingya 
with regard to the prospects for their voluntary return 
that the atrocity crimes that they have been subjected 
to are duly accounted for and the perpetrators brought 
to justice.
Bangladesh welcomes the decision by the Assembly 
of State Parties to activate the Court’s jurisdiction over 
the crime of aggression as of 17 July. We also support 
the three amendments to article 8 of the Rome Statute 
and  take  note  of  further  proposals  brought  before  the 
Working Group on Amendments.
We  stress  that  the  cooperation,  assistance  and 
support of State parties to the Rome Statute, as well as 
other States, remain critical to ensuring that the mandate 
of the ICC is discharged in a sustained and meaningful 
manner.  We  reiterate  the  importance  of  recognizing 
the  Court’s  mandate  and  competence  throughout  the 
United Nations system with a view to acknowledging 
its  valuable  contribution  to  international  peace  and 
security, the rule of law and the creation of peaceful, 
just  and  inclusive  societies.  We  take  positive  note  of 
the  collaboration  pursued  between  UNESCO  and  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  to  protect  cultural  heritage 
from attack during armed conflicts.
We underscore the need for the Security Council’s 
continued  support  for  the  effective  functioning  of 
the  Court,  including  in  the  cases  referred  to  it  by  the 
Council.  There  is  clear  merit  in  the  suggestion  for 
a  structured  dialogue  between  the  Council  and  the 
Court on issues of mutual interest, notably in relation 
to  States’  non-cooperation,  sanctions,  travel  bans  and 
asset freezes. For our part, we shall continue to extend 
all  necessary  cooperation  to  the  Court  in  mission 
areas  where  our  peacekeepers  and  military  observers 
are deployed.
Bangladesh reaffirms the primary responsibility of 
national  jurisdictions  to  investigate  and  prosecute  the 
crimes defined in the Rome Statute. We fully endorse 
the recommendation for the possible inclusion of issues 
related to the Rome Statute in legal and judicial reform 
programmes  supported  by  the  United  Nations  in  the 
context of development assistance for the rule of law. 
That  would  be  particularly  crucial  for  States  that  are 
not party to the Rome Statute.
As  a  State  party,  Bangladesh  remains  committed 
to promoting the universality and full implementation 
of the Rome Statute. We would hope that the twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
which  was  observed  last  year,  will  help  create  the 
necessary  impetus  for  the  eventual  universalization 
of  the  Statute.  ICC  cooperation  seminars  and  other 
cooperation  arrangements  with  relevant  international 
and regional organizations should also contribute to the 
universalization agenda.
to 
Bangladesh  underscores  the  need  for  appropriate 
capacity-building support for the national jurisdictions 
of  States  parties,  pursuant 
the  principle  of 
complementarity.  In  that  context,  we  reiterate  the 
importance  of  considering  budgetary  support  for 
internships  and  visiting  professional  programmes 
for  applicants  from  States  parties  representing  the 
developing  and  least-developed  countries.  We  have 
circulated a working paper on that subject for favourable 
consideration  by  all  States  parties  and  the  Court.  We 
reiterate  that  due  attention  must  be  given  to  ensuring 
the equitable geographical representation of the staff at 
the Court, especially at the professional level.
We  consider  it  important  to  enhance  voluntary 
contributions  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  so  that 
the Court can deliver on its reparations and assistance 
mandates.  As  the  designated  facilitator,  Bangladesh 
is  making  efforts  to  engage  with  the  States  parties 
concerned  to  settle  their  outstanding  arrears.  We 
also  look  forward  to  discharging  our  responsibilities 
as a member of the ICC Bureau during the next two-
year period.
18-34919
21/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
In conclusion, we want to emphasize the importance 
of upholding solidarity among States parties, as well as 
the integrity and credibility of the ICC as a court of last 
resort, in the overarching interest of fighting impunity 
for the gravest crimes under international law that are 
under its jurisdiction.
Ms. Roopnarine (Trinidad and Tobago): Trinidad 
and  Tobago  is  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) contained in document A/73/334 and supporting 
documents  on  the  activities  of  the  Court  in  2017 
and  2018.  We  view  those  documents  as  important 
instruments  that  convey  essential  information  on  the 
activities of the Court to the wider membership of the 
United Nations as well as States parties. We also want 
to take this opportunity to congratulate the President of 
the  ICC,  Judge  Chile  Eboe-Osuji,  on  his  presentation 
of the report.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  was  a  participant  in  the 
trenches  during  the  genesis  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
through  the  work  of  our  late  former  Prime  Minister 
and  subsequent  President  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad 
and Tobago. We are therefore pleased to join others in 
celebrating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  founding 
document  of  the  ICC.  The  praise  of  the  international 
community is well placed and well merited.
We  submit  that  the  ICC  is  both  an  international 
guardian  and  guarantor  of  the  rule  of  law.  Indeed, 
Trinidad and Tobago’s unwavering commitment to the 
ICC  is  informed  by  its  recognition  of  the  importance 
of ending impunity for perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community  as 
outlined  in  article  5  of  the  Rome  Statute,  that  is,  the 
crime of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes 
and crimes of aggression.
We welcome the activation of the Court’s jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression as of 17 July. Trinidad and 
Tobago ratified the amendments concerning the crime 
of aggression in November 2012, following the Review 
Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  Kampala  in  2010. 
We view that development as a means to ensure that the 
Court is able to exercise wider jurisdiction, including 
over crimes of aggression, thereby preventing impunity.
Notwithstanding  the  many  challenges  facing  the 
Court, it cannot be denied that the ICC continues to be 
a beacon of hope to the victims of grave crimes within 
its  jurisdiction  who  are  seeking  justice.  They  include 
the most vulnerable, such as thousands of women and 
children, who are often the ones most affected by the 
actions  of  criminals  who  show  blatant  disregard  for 
the  sanctity  of  human  life  by  violating  international 
humanitarian and human rights law.
We  nonetheless  remain  deeply  concerned  about 
the recent withdrawals and notifications of withdrawal 
from  the  Rome  Statute,  as  highlighted  in  the  current 
report. While respecting the sovereign right of States to 
act as they deem appropriate, Trinidad and Tobago is of 
the  view  that  engagement,  not  disengagement,  should 
be the prevailing approach to the ICC.
We recognize that the ICC has been perceived by 
some as a threat to national sovereignty. However, we 
want to demystify that notion and remind Member States 
that consistent with the principle of complementarity as 
enshrined in the Rome Statute, the Court’s jurisdiction 
is invoked only when States are unable or unwilling to 
prosecute those alleged to have committed grave crimes. 
No individual or State need fear the ICC, therefore, as it 
is a court of last resort.
Trinidad and Tobago reaffirms that the success of 
the  Court  is  fundamentally  linked  to  the  universality 
of  the  Rome  Statute.  To  that  end,  we  reiterate  our 
commitment to promoting the universality of the Rome 
Statute, and we urge all States that have not yet done so 
to ratify and fully implement it.
Pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement,  which  provides  for  close  cooperation 
between the Court and the United Nations in discharging 
their  respective  responsibilities,  we  are  satisfied  that 
during the current reporting period, the United Nations 
cooperated  extensively  with  the  Court  with  a  view  to 
further  strengthening  the  relationship  and  ensuring 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  Agreement.  In 
accordance with the report of the Secretary-General on 
this item, we would like to recall that the capacity of 
the  Security  Council  to  refer  a  situation  to  the  Court 
is crucial to our efforts to promote accountability, but 
active  follow-up  on  referrals,  ensuring  that  there  will 
be  cooperation,  is  necessary  in  order  to  ensure  that 
justice is delivered. We therefore welcome the dialogue 
on 6 July between the States parties to the Court that 
are members of the Council through the convening of 
an Arria Formula meeting, the first of that nature.
Finally, Trinidad and Tobago commends the efforts 
of the Court to ensure that justice can prevail and that 
criminals  are  not  allowed  to  continue  their  actions 
with impunity. We remain satisfied with the steadfast 
22/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
commitment and hard work on the part of the Court’s 
Prosecutor, who continues to discharge her mandate in 
line with the provisions of the Rome Statute of the ICC.
Mr.  Suan  (Myanmar):  Paragraphs  43  and  44  of 
the  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
(see A/73/334) mention the Prosecutor’s submission of 
a  request  for  a  ruling  of  the  Pre-trial  Chamber  as  to 
whether  the  Court  might  exercise  jurisdiction  on  the 
alleged  deportation  of  the  so-called  Rohingya  from 
Myanmar to Bangladesh. Consequently, on 6 September, 
Pre-trial Chamber 1 ruled by a majority decision that 
the Court may exercise jurisdiction over Myanmar.
Myanmar  resolutely  rejects  that  decision,  which 
results  from  faulty  procedure  and  is  of  dubious  legal 
merit.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my  Government’s 
position that since Myanmar is not a party to the Rome 
Statute, it is under no obligation to respect the findings 
of  the  Court.  The  decision  was  the  result  of  manifest 
bad faith, procedural irregularities and a general lack of 
transparency. Permission was given to organizations to 
file amicus curiae submissions without consideration of 
their identity or of the beneficial scope of their proposed 
contributions.  Several  of  the  briefs  submitted  did  not 
address  legal  issues,  in  fact.  Furthermore,  allegations 
consisting  of  emotionally  charged  narratives  of 
harrowing personal tragedies, which have nothing to do 
with the legal arguments in question, were permitted, 
putting emotional pressure on the Court. Submissions 
of observations by those groups had the intended effect 
of placing the Court in an emotional bind.
The Prosecutor incorrectly applied article 19 (3) of 
the Statute in her request for a ruling from the Court on 
jurisdiction at a time when the Court was not properly 
seized of the matter. In that respect, Judge Marc Perrin 
de Brichambaut shared his view that articles 19 (3) and 
119  (1)  of  the  Rome  Statute  are  inapplicable  and  that 
the  competence-competence  doctrine  cannot  serve 
as  an  alternative  basis  for  the  Chamber  to  provide  a 
ruling.  Myanmar  also  disagrees  with  the  Prosecutor’s 
assertion 
that  population  displacement  across  a 
national boundary is an essential objective element of 
the crime of deportation, as set out in article 7 (1) (d) 
of the Statute.
whereby both countries agreed on a short time frame for 
the voluntary return of all those who fled Rakhine state 
as  a  result  of  hostilities  in  the  region.  Myanmar  and 
Bangladesh also signed the terms of reference for the 
joint working group and the physical arrangement for 
the  repatriation  of  displaced  Myanmar  residents  from 
Bangladesh. All of those bilateral agreements are aimed 
at  facilitating  the  repatriation  of  verified  residents  of 
Rakhine state who crossed over to Bangladesh following 
the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army terrorist attacks 
in  October  2016  and  August  2017.  There  was  no  cap 
on  the  number  to  be  repatriated,  and  the  process  was 
intended to begin on 23 January 2018.
Moreover, the Myanmar Government also signed a 
memorandum of understanding with the United Nations 
Development Programme and the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on 6 June 2018. 
The  memorandum  seeks  United  Nations  participation 
in  coordinating  and  harmonizing  humanitarian  and 
development  action  in  Rakhine  state  and  in  assisting 
the Government of Myanmar in the voluntary, safe and 
dignified  return  of  displaced  persons  from  Rakhine 
state  who  have  been  duly  verified  as  residents  of 
Myanmar,  in  line  with  the  physical  arrangement.  In 
accordance  with  the  memorandum  of  understanding, 
the United Nations team has already completed the first 
phase of its field assessment in 23 villages in northern 
Rakhine. It is now undertaking the second phase of the 
field assessment in an additional 26 villages.
The  Government  of  Myanmar 
is  aware  of 
accusations  regarding  human  rights  violations  in  the 
aftermath of the August 2017 terrorist attacks. In line 
with the Government’s commitment to the rule of law, 
an Independent Commission of Inquiry was established 
on 30 July. The Commission consists of two prominent 
international personalities and two national members. 
The Commission will investigate allegations of human 
rights violations and related issues following the terror 
attacks  by  the  Arakan  Rohingya  Salvation  Army. 
The  Government  of  Myanmar  is  committed  to  taking 
necessary action based on the Commission’s findings. 
We are willing and able to take on the accountability 
issues  for  any  alleged  human  rights  violation  where 
there is sufficient evidence.
Furthermore,  there  is  no  organizational  policy  of 
the kind required for proving crimes against humanity 
under the Rome Statute. Such a policy would be hard 
to  reconcile  with  the  repatriation  agreement  signed 
between Myanmar and Bangladesh in November 2017, 
The Government of Myanmar is now undertaking in 
earnest the preparation of the necessary conditions that 
would be conducive to the safe, voluntary and dignified 
repatriation  of  the  people  who  fled  to  Bangladesh. 
In  accordance  with  the  bilateral  agreements  and 
18-34919
23/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
arrangements  concluded  with  Bangladesh,  Myanmar 
has  been  ready  to  receive  the  first  batch  of  verified 
returnees since January.
During the high-level week of the current session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  an  informal  meeting  was 
held  between  China,  Myanmar  and  Bangladesh  with 
the presence of the Secretary-General, Mr. Guterres. It 
reached a three-point consensus on resolving the issue of 
displaced persons in a friendly and expeditious manner. 
As a result, a third meeting of the Joint Working Group 
will  be  held  on  29  and  30  October  in  Dhaka  to  work 
out  detailed  arrangements  for  the  first  repatriation  as 
soon  as  possible.  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  the 
first group of verified displaced persons will be able to 
return to Rakhine state very soon.
overextended 
application 
The  Court’s 
of 
jurisdiction  challenges  the  fundamental  principle  of 
legal certainty and is contrary to the accepted principles 
of public international law. It has created a dangerous 
precedent and erodes the moral authority of the Court. 
Nowhere  in  the  Rome  Statue  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  does  it  say  that  the  Court  has 
jurisdiction  over  States  that  have  not  accepted  that 
jurisdiction. Furthermore, the 1969 Vienna Convention 
on the Law of Treaties between States and International 
Organizations or between International Organizations 
states that no treaty can be imposed on a country that has 
not ratified it. What the Prosecutor is attempting to do 
is to override the principles of national sovereignty and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, 
contrary to the principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  recalled  in  the  preamble  to 
the  Rome  Statute.  I  would  also  like  to  state  that  we 
strongly  deplore  and  reject  attempts  made  by  some 
States Members of the United Nations to refer this case 
involving Myanmar to the ICC. We will never recognize 
discriminatory, selective, biased, politically motivated 
and illegitimate ICC jurisdiction over Myanmar.
Finally,  my  delegation  dissociates  itself  from  the 
draft resolution (A/73/L.8) to be adopted this afternoon.
Mr. Hwang Woo Jin (Republic of Korea): At the 
outset, I would like to express my sincere appreciation 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Judge  Eboe-Osuji,  for  his  comprehensive 
presentation of the report (see A/73/334). My delegation 
also commends the joint efforts by the presidency, the 
Chambers, the Office of the Prosecutor and the Registry 
to help end impunity for perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes of concern to the international community.
After  the  successful  ceremony  this  past  summer 
celebrating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  now  is  the  time  for  the  United 
Nations and the International Criminal Court to work 
more closely together and to reassert the relevance and 
importance of international criminal justice in securing 
the rule of law and international peace and security.
We cannot overemphasize the significant role that 
the  ICC  has  played  in  sustaining  the  three  pillars  of 
the United Nations — peace and security, development 
and  human  rights.  Securing  criminal  justice  for  the 
perpetrators of heinous crimes that shock the conscience 
of  humanity  is  a  cornerstone  of  the  rule  of  law  that 
provides a solid basis for the successful implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is 
for that reason that we support the ongoing cooperation 
between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations  at  various 
levels, as described in the report.
While  the  progress  that  the  ICC  has  made  on  its 
path to ending impunity is quite remarkable, it has also 
been facing some harsh realities on various fronts. We 
hope  that  with  the  help  of  its  stakeholders,  the  Court 
will rise above those considerable challenges to firmly 
establish  itself  as  a  robust  and  reliable  institution  for 
international criminal justice.
First,  as  an  international  court,  the  ICC  cannot 
sustain  itself  without  active  cooperation  at  each  and 
every  step  from  multiple  stakeholders,  especially 
States  parties  and  the  United  Nations.  In  order  to 
enhance cooperation with States, it is crucial that the 
Court  also  reach  out  to  interested  regions,  States  and 
relevant organizations. Since the cooperation between 
the ICC and the United Nations, especially the Security 
Council, is vital to the proper functioning of the system, 
it  was  notable  that  on  6  July  the  Security  Council 
held  an  Arria  Formula  meeting  on  relations  between 
the  Council  and  the  ICC  in  which  both  the  President 
of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  and  the  Prosecutor 
participated as briefers.
Secondly, the success of our fight against impunity 
hinges not only on adequate cooperation but also on the 
universal application of the Rome Statute. The number of 
States parties to the Statute has more than doubled since 
its entry into force in 2002, a remarkable achievement 
indeed. Nevertheless, the number still falls short of two 
thirds  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations. 
24/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
Wider  participation  by  States  in  the  Statute  would 
undoubtedly lead to stronger support for the Court. And 
the States newly joining the ICC would be investing not 
only  in  the  protection  of  their  territories  and  peoples 
but also in the protection of future generations and the 
creation of a more just world. We should be aware that 
the ratification of the Rome Statute by a State does not 
equate to a concession of that State’s sovereignty, given 
the principle of complementarity.
The Republic of Korea has been a staunch supporter 
of  the  ICC  since  its  inception.  We  will  continue  to 
be  an  important  part  of  the  concerted  efforts  of  the 
international  community  to  establish  the  ICC  as  a 
responsible, universal and efficient institution working 
to  end  impunity  for  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes  against  humanity.  In  that  regard,  we  have  full 
confidence in the leadership of the incumbent President 
of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties,  Mr.  O-Gon  Kwon, 
and will continue to provide adequate assistance to him 
as he discharges his important duty.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  the  Republic  of 
Korea’s strong support for the ICC.
Mr.  Ly  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  Like  other 
speakers before me, on behalf of my country I would 
like  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Chile  Eboe-Osuji,  for 
his election to lead that important institution. I would 
also  like  to  thank  him  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report  on  the  Court’s  activities  (see  A/73/334),  which 
demonstrates  its  importance  in  our  universal  fight 
against impunity and for respect for the rule of law. His 
presentation is taking place in the context of a general 
erosion of the international legal order and multifaceted 
criticism of the ICC. But it is also taking place at a time 
of  accountability,  in  which  demands  for  justice  and 
reparations for the wrongs suffered by victims cannot 
be ignored.
Senegal has always supported the path of dialogue 
in promoting peaceful and mutually trusting relations 
between  States  and  the  Court,  because  we  believe 
that the fight against impunity and for the rule of law 
must  be  a  universal  struggle  on  the  part  of  the  entire 
international  community.  In  that  respect,  we  are  of 
the  view  that  dialogue  and  cooperation  are  the  most 
effective ways to deal with the concerns of others and 
change the negative, if unjustified, perceptions of the 
Court. That is why we have consistently urged all States 
to engage in a consensual, unified and interdependent 
dynamic  and  in  a  spirit  of  wisdom  and  discernment, 
so  that  the  trust  and  enthusiasm  that  the  peoples  and 
leaders  of  the  world  placed  in  the  Court  when  it  was 
created 20 years ago can be restored.
We  must  listen  to  one  another  and  constructively 
discuss and deal with the concerns expressed by States, 
all  while  ensuring  the  integrity  of  the  Court.  The 
Security Council must act with care and objectivity in 
exercising its right to refer matters to the Court, so as 
to avoid the perception that it is using the Court as a 
political  tool.  As  for  the  Court,  in  order  to  avoid  the 
risk  of  tarnishing  its  credibility,  it  must  continue  to 
apply the highest trial standards, respecting the rights 
of both the defence and the prosecution and protecting 
the integrity of witnesses unfailingly.
The  review  of  the  report  before  the  General 
Assembly today is a convincing barometer of the first 
and  only  permanent  international  court  in  charge  of 
prosecuting mass crimes. The Court has demonstrated 
remarkable  resilience  in  the  face  of  adversity,  and  it 
will undoubtedly prevail. Since its creation, the Court 
has received a total of 26 cases, involving 41 suspects 
or  defendants,  and  has  investigated  11  cases.  During 
the  reporting  period  it  issued  new  arrest  warrants  for 
two  persons,  one  of  whom  has  appeared  before  it.  It 
conducted three trials, rendered final judgments in two 
cases  before  the  Appeals  Chamber  and  handed  down 
several  important  decisions  concerning  reparation  for 
victims. Preliminary examinations by the Office of the 
Prosecutor, involving 11 cases around the world, as well 
as the opening of a new investigation, support our belief 
that international criminal justice is slowly but surely 
and irreversibly progressing on a path to universality.
Let us acknowledge that today the ICC, despite its 
shortcomings,  remains  the  only  recourse  for  victims 
of  serious  crimes  when  the  right  to  justice  cannot  be 
exercised in situ. Since the Court is a complementary 
mechanism  of  last  resort,  it  remains  crucial  for  us  to 
make every effort to strengthen the capacity of States 
to  investigate  and  prosecute  crimes  committed  on  a 
large  scale  and  to  prosecute  their  perpetrators.  When 
all is said and done, since the Rome Statute establishes 
only a court of last resort that targets neither States nor 
regions but rather aims to protect victims, the primary 
responsibility  of  States  to  investigate  and  try  the 
atrocious crimes defined in the Statute remains.
Let us also acknowledge that the Court, despite its 
relative youth, is recognized today as a major institution 
18-34919
25/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
in  a  functioning  and  maturing  international  criminal 
justice system. In that respect, it deserves the support 
of  the  international  community  in  a  world  where 
massive  violations  continue  to  strike  innocent  people 
before our eyes and where in many cases such crimes 
go unpunished at the State level or are even erased from 
people’s memory.
The  universal  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute 
and  the  integration  of  those  norms  into  the  domestic 
laws  of  States  must  be  made  a  reality  if  we  want  all 
victims across the globe, wherever they live, to have an 
equal and fair chance to obtain justice, and if we want 
to  enhance  the  effectiveness,  legitimacy  and  capacity 
of  the  Court  to  contribute  to  the  rule  of  law,  justice, 
peace and sustainable development. All Member States 
should always remember that the prevention of conflicts 
and the pursuit of peace and effective universal justice, 
which is the deepest aspiration of all peoples, require 
that all countries around the world work together within 
the framework of the Rome Statute.
I would like to conclude by saying that justice for 
those victims must remain a priority for the international 
community. Our daily action should be based only on 
protecting those victims so that the tree of hope planted 
20  years  ago  in  Rome  continues  to  flourish  forever 
between  the  dunes  of  The  Hague  and  the  North  Sea. 
May it be so.
Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): First of all, I would like to welcome and thank 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
Mr.  Chile  Eboe-Osuji,  for  his  extensive,  valuable, 
detailed  and  enlightening  report  on 
judicial 
activities  of  the  Court  (see  A/73/334),  as  well  as  for 
highlighting the many ways in which the United Nations 
and  States  have  cooperated  with  the  International 
Criminal Court during the period under review. I also 
want to congratulate him on his brilliant election to the 
presidency of that body.
the 
On the whole, we note and agree that the Court has 
carried out actions of special relevance. In that regard 
we  welcome  the  consensus  decision  to  activate  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression,  as 
well  as  the  continued  cooperation  and  support  of  the 
United Nations for the Court.
As  we  have  reiterated  on  many  occasions  in  this 
Hall,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  supports 
respect 
international 
humanitarian law, which is why we commend the great 
international 
for 
law  and 
efforts by States and the United Nations, especially the 
Security Council, as well as the Court, in ensuring its 
ongoing work on holding accountable all perpetrators 
of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, 
among  others.  We  also  commend  the  Court  for  its 
extraordinary  zeal  in  establishing  institutions  and 
methods  to  combat  pervasive  impunity.  However,  we 
believe  that  if  the  Court  is  to  be  able  to  comply  with 
its mandate, it requires strong cooperation from States 
parties  and  other  States,  a  cooperation  that  is  being 
eroded  owing  to  the  lack  of  credibility  of  the  Court, 
which  results  from  its  failure  to  execute  its  duties 
effectively, honestly and transparently in several cases.
While  it  is  true  that  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court  are  closely 
linked, 
their  respective  aims  show  that  they  are  independent 
organizations  with  different  mandates.  It  is  therefore 
vital  to  preserve  the  difference  between  the  Security 
Council  and 
International  Criminal  Court. 
Nevertheless,  the  international  community  expects 
both  organizations  to  perform  their  functions  in  their 
respective  areas  of  competence  with  objectivity, 
credibility and impartiality, and to avoid politicizing the 
Court. In that context, we are very concerned about the 
selectivity with which the competent institutions of the 
United Nations have referred lawsuits under article 16 
of the Rome Statute, owing to political considerations 
that apparently play a major role in such referrals. That 
also  raises  questions  about  the  independence  of  the 
International Criminal Court.
the 
In 
those  circumstances,  we  encourage 
the 
institutions  of  the  United  Nations  to  examine  the 
referral  of  new  cases  to  the  Court  in  application  of 
the  possibility  offered  by  article  13  of  the  Rome 
Statute  extremely  carefully.  We  believe  that  one  of 
the  important  factors  that  should  be  evaluated  when 
considering  the  eventual  referral  of  a  situation  to  the 
International Criminal Court is the existence or lack of 
legal norms and judicial institutions in the country in 
question, and therefore whether it will be appropriate 
to  file  an  objection  with  the  Court  at  a  later  date, 
based on whether the principle of complementarity has 
been observed.
With  regard  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
proceedings concerning Mr. Omar Al-Bashir, President 
of the Sudan, we would like to point out that Equatorial 
Guinea adheres to all the declarations and resolutions 
issued  by  the  African  Union  regarding  the  manner  in 
which  the  Court  has  dealt  with  some  African  issues, 
26/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
and  especially  with  regard  to  the  proceedings  against 
the  President  of  the  Sudan.  We  are  of  the  view  that 
the  Court  does  not  have  jurisdiction  to  indict  a  Head 
of State, since, as the symbol of national sovereignty, 
he  enjoys  full  immunity.  Besides  that,  the  Court  is 
expected  to  act  only  in  countries  that  are  party  to  it, 
unless  a  non-party  State  requests  its  cooperation  in 
criminal matters and deems it necessary to cooperate 
with the Court.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  urge  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court  to  devote  more  of  their  efforts 
to  assisting  and  training  national  judicial  institutions 
in  order 
to  achieve  closer  and  more  effective 
cooperation between the Court and States that request 
such assistance.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard the last speaker on this agenda item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/73/L.8.
Before giving the floor to delegations that wish to 
speak in explanation of position before the adoption of 
the  draft  resolution,  I  would  like  to  remind  speakers 
that explanations are limited to 10 minutes and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms. Palau-Hernandez (United States of America): 
The United States recently announced a change in its 
policy regarding the International Criminal Court (ICC). 
The reasons for that change in policy have been made 
public, including in the speech delivered 10 September 
by our National Security Advisor, Mr. John Bolton, and 
are widely available. We will therefore not repeat them 
at length here.
The  United  States  reiterates  its  continuing  and 
long-standing  principled  objection  to  any  assertion  of 
ICC  jurisdiction  over  nationals  of  States  that  are  not 
party to the Rome Statute, including the United States 
and  Israel,  without  a  Security  Council  referral  or  the 
consent of such a State.
We  also  wish 
to  reiterate  our  serious  and 
fundamental  concerns  about  the  ICC  Prosecutor’s 
proposed  investigation  of  United  States  personnel  in 
the context of the conflict in Afghanistan. The United 
States remains a leader in the fight to end impunity and 
supports  justice  and  accountability  for  international 
crimes, including war crimes, crimes against humanity 
and genocide. The United States respects the decisions 
of nations that have chosen to join the ICC, and in turn 
we expect that our decision not to join and not to place 
our citizens under the Court’s jurisdiction will also be 
respected.  Accordingly,  the  United  States  dissociates 
itself from the consensus on draft resolution A/73/L.8.
Mr.  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
politicization of international justice in order to attain 
specific goals or serve specific narrow interests does not 
consort with the efforts of the international community 
to achieve justice and remain faithful to the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Such  politicization  violates  established  principles  of 
international law and foments tension in international 
relations  rather  than  promoting  their  improvement 
as  one  of  the  primary  objectives  underlying  the 
establishment of the United Nations.
the 
reiterates 
The International Criminal Court (ICC) has clearly 
demonstrated that it is merely a tool used in international 
struggles  and  a  political  instrument.  That  is  why 
the  Sudan  reiterates  its  clear  and  steadfast  position 
rejecting the Court and its practices, since it represents 
a platform that seeks to politicize international justice, 
target African leaders and threaten peace and stability 
in African countries.
My  delegation 
importance  of 
combating  impunity  and  achieving  justice  through 
national judicial bodies that are authorized and capable 
of exercising national competence and achieving justice. 
National judicial bodies are supposed to do that without 
foreign  intervention  or  guardianship.  My  country 
possesses  its  own  national  judicial  system  capable  of 
establishing national jurisdiction and achieving justice.
the  General 
Assembly  into  an  assembly  for  States  parties  to  the 
ICC represent a violation of the Charter and contradict 
established  principles  enshrined  in  international  law. 
The  Sudan  reiterates  its  full  and  unequivocal  refusal 
to deal with the Court. We are not a State party to the 
Rome Statute, and we have made no commitments to it. 
In that connection, the relevant provisions of the Vienna 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties,  international  law 
and  international  customary  law  should  be  borne  in 
mind.  The  continued  attempts  to  make  the  General 
Assembly  an  assembly  for  States  parties  to  the  Court 
will always constitute a violation of the Charter and run 
counter to the principles I have mentioned.
The  continued  attempts 
to 
turn 
The  ICC  is  a  separate  entity  that  has  no  organic 
relationship  with  the  United  Nations.  There  are  no 
commitments  with  regard  to  it  incumbent  on  States 
18-34919
27/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
other  than  those  assumed  by  parties  to  the  Court. 
On  that  basis,  the  draft  resolution  that  is  about  to  be 
adopted (A/73/L.8) is of no relevance to the Sudan, and 
we will attach no weight to it. We dissociate ourselves 
from it and would like our position on it to be reflected 
in the meeting record.
manner,  as  well  as  those  who  treat  the  concepts  of 
justice, accountability and the prevention of impunity 
in  a  politicized,  partial  and  unbalanced  way.  Such  an 
approach  serves  only  to  undermine  State  sovereignty 
and  infringe  on  the  mandates  of  national  legal  and 
judicial institutions.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard the last speaker in explanation of vote before the 
voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.8,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Criminal Court”.
to 
representative  of 
floor 
the 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
A/73/L.8:  Andorra,  Australia,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, 
the  Czech  Republic,  El  Salvador,  France,  Germany, 
Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, 
Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic 
of Korea, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Sweden, the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Vanuatu.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I 
take it that the General Assembly decides to adopt draft 
resolution A/73/L.8?
adopted 
resolution  A/73/L.8  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/7).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Before 
giving the floor for explanations of vote after the voting, 
I would like to remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Al  Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  my 
delegation  dissociates  itself  from  any  consensus  on 
resolution  73/7,  which  has  just  been  adopted.  The 
Syrian Arab Republic has been and remains opposed to 
suspicious and unfounded attempts by the Governments 
of  certain  Member  States  to  expand  the  scope  of 
universal  jurisdiction  in  a  distorted  and  illegitimate 
Syria  was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  actively 
contribute  to  the  negotiations  on  the  Rome  Statute, 
which  established  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC). Syria was also one of the first countries to become 
a signatory to the Statute. However, when we look back 
after  all  these  years  at  the  nature  of  the  work  of  the 
ICC, we see a politicized and manipulated body that is 
capable of acting only against weak countries. Even the 
recent  Kampala  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute  on 
the crime of aggression are a dead letter. Everyone here 
today  knows  that  it  will  be  impossible  to  implement 
the  amendments,  because  the  Court’s  activities  are 
subjected to political arrangements and deals.
The representatives of certain delegations continue 
to insist in this Hall on cheap political exploitation of the 
situation in my country, Syria. They have shamelessly, 
hypocritically and deceitfully called for the situation in 
Syria to be referred to the ICC. Frankly, I find it strange 
that  the  Permanent  Representative  of  one  such  State 
has issued a call from this very rostrum for referring 
the situation to the ICC. Perhaps he knows, or perhaps 
he  does  not  know,  that  his  country’s  Government  has 
signed  a  bilateral  memorandum  with  another  State  to 
ensure impunity for its soldiers and officers so that they 
cannot be prosecuted by the ICC.
There are also certain States that continue to insist 
in  this  Hall  on  promoting  the  so-called  International, 
Impartial and Independent Mechanism to Assist in the 
Investigation  and  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible 
for  the  Most  Serious  Crimes  under  International  Law 
Committed  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  since  March 
2011. They remain responsible for limiting the mandate 
of the ICC to certain countries and cases and are now 
seeking  to  cover  up  the  genuine  and  fundamental 
reasons  that  led  various  States  to  withdraw  from  the 
Court  and  its  Rome  Statute.  While  I  did  not  want  to 
delve  into  that  issue  or  its  details,  some  States  have 
pushed me to do just that.
On  the  International,  Impartial  and  Independent 
Mechanism, I would like to emphasize to the political 
hypocrites  that  the  majority  of  Member  States  no 
longer  want  to  hear  from  biased  parties  who  attempt 
28/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
to use the General Assembly to promote it. It has been 
demonstrated to all that it is an illegitimate entity that 
has  been  dead  since  its  inception.  It  was  merely  the 
consequence  of  the  General  Assembly’s  adoption  of 
a  resolution  without  consensus,  where  the  Assembly 
went  beyond  its  specific  mandates  under  Articles  10, 
11, 12 and 22 of the Charter. The Mechanism has also 
grossly overstepped the Security Council’s mandates as 
provided for in Article 12 of the Charter.
I do not want to take up the time and effort of the 
Assembly by focusing too much on the Mechanism. I 
therefore invite delegations to read the letters addressed 
to the Secretary-General and the President of the General 
Assembly  submitted  by  our  delegation  and  those  of  a 
number of Member States, which give conclusive proof 
of  its  significant  legal  defects.  I  would  like  to  refer 
in  particular  to  our  two  letters  issued  as  documents 
A/71/799  and  A/72/106.  I  once  again  stress  to  the 
Assembly that the parties that continue to promote the 
so-called Mechanism cannot refute the legal arguments 
that we presented against its establishment. Our legal 
arguments were based on the Charter and international 
law, not on a politically biased perspective.
In  conclusion,  I  call  on  those  who  continue  to 
promote  the  ICC  to  bring  their  words  into  line  with 
their actions. They must dissociate themselves from the 
harsh and unbalanced political reality that the world is 
encountering. They should start by holding accountable 
the  Governments  of  States  that  have  supported  and 
funded  the  extremist  Salafi  jihadi  organizations  that 
are responsible for killing tens of thousands of innocent 
Syrians.  They  should  hold  accountable  Governments 
of  States  that  were  implicated  in  the  rise  and  spread 
of  the  phenomenon  of  foreign  terrorist  fighters.  Only 
then will we be able to listen to them about achieving 
abstract  international  justice  not  based  on  the  law  of 
power, political considerations and narrow interests.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  is  committed  to  the 
rule of law at the international level and to combating 
impunity. We are adapting our national criminal legal 
system in response to current threats and challenges, as 
well as making active use of the applicable mechanisms 
for  international  cooperation  on  these  issues,  while 
being  guided,  where  applicable,  by  the  principle  of 
extradite or prosecute.
The  contribution  of 
the  current  bodies  of 
international  justice  to  the  fight  against  impunity  are 
not  uniform.  The  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
is  perhaps  the  least  effective  among  them.  We  are 
disappointed  that  the  text  of  resolution  73/7,  on  the 
report  of  the  ICC  (see  A/73/PV.334),  has  once  again 
been  merely  technically  updated.  First,  that  does  not 
reflect the real state of affairs in and around the Court, 
and secondly, it does not take into account the positions 
of States that are not party to the Rome Statute of the 
ICC. There is little sense, if any, in the adoption of such 
a resolution.
We  have  repeatedly  detailed  our  views  on  the 
activities  of  the  ICC.  Unfortunately,  the  past  year 
has  given  grounds  for  an  even  more  pessimistic 
assessment.  Huge  resources  have  been  squandered  on 
three  convictions  throughout  the  ICC’s  16  years  of 
existence. The Court continues to interpret the norms 
of international law, including on the immunity of State 
officials, very loosely and often unprofessionally. That 
has  resulted  in  the  well-known  concerns  of  a  number 
of States in Africa and of the African Union, which we 
share.  It  is  symbolic  that  this  year  the  States  of  that 
region  have  initiated  the  introduction  of  an  item  into 
the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  on  a  request  for 
an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International  Court  of 
Justice on those issues.
We  are  also  concerned  about  the  ICC’s  desire  to 
unjustifiably expand its jurisdiction, attempting to draw 
into  its  orbit  States  that  are  not  party  to  the  Statute. 
That was particularly clear in the Court’s approach at 
the  beginning  of  the  preliminary  investigation  of  the 
alleged Rohingya deportations.
The reputation of the ICC is deteriorating year by 
year.  Incidentally,  in  October  2017,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor of the Court announced the launching of a 
full-fledged investigation by the Independent Oversight 
Mechanism into accusations of misconduct on the part 
of  the  Court’s  staff,  which  is  alleged  to  have  taken 
place during the investigation of the Libya case. It was 
also reported that a former Prosecutor of the ICC was 
embroiled  in  dubious  schemes.  However,  nothing  has 
been heard about the results of that investigation.
In sum, the Court has many problems and we will 
not list them all. Yet another State recently announced 
its withdrawal from the Rome Statute. We cannot help 
noting that it does not seem that the Court’s activities 
have been able to genuinely help to stabilize situations, 
halt violence or alleviate the plight of civilian populations 
in any of the situations under its consideration. In that 
18-34919
29/31
A/73/PV.28 
29/10/2018
regard,  the  outcomes  of  the  ICC’s  years  of  work  on 
situations  referred  to  it  by  the  Security  Council  are 
particularly indicative. Given the circumstances I have 
outlined,  our  delegation  cannot  support  this  technical 
update to the text and we dissociate ourselves from the 
consensus on the resolution.
Ms.  Ponce  (Philippines):  The  Philippines  has 
dissociated  itself  from  the  consensus  resolution  73/7. 
The withdrawal of the Philippines from the International 
Criminal  Court  takes  effect  on  17  March  2019.  Our 
decision to withdraw is based on our principled stand 
against  those  who  politicize  human  rights,  while  our 
country’s  independent  and  well-functioning  organs 
and  agencies  continue  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over 
complaints,  issues,  problems  and  concerns  arising 
from the Government’s efforts to protect its people. It 
is true that as in all democracies, the wheels of justice 
grind slowly and not always exceedingly well, but they 
do turn. We wish that we were able to, but we cannot 
give  assurances  to  well-intentioned  critics  that  we 
will  bypass  justice  so  as  to  give  plaintiffs  immediate 
retribution.  That  would  undermine  the  rule  of  law. 
We  affirm  our  commitment  to  fighting  impunity  for 
atrocity  crimes,  despite  our  withdrawal  from  the 
Rome Statute, especially given that the Philippines has 
national legislation punishing atrocity crimes.
Mrs.  Weiss 
(Israel): 
Israel  has  decided 
to 
dissociate itself from the consensus resolution 73/7, not 
because  we  do  not  support  the  noble  goals  for  which 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  was  founded 
but  rather  because  we  do.  Israel  was  among  the  first 
supporters of the establishment of a permanent criminal 
institution,  and  we  continue  to  believe  in  the  critical 
importance of combating impunity for mass atrocities. 
Our position today is a way to give voice to the growing 
concerns that we know are shared by many, including 
both States that are parties and non-parties to the ICC, 
on  the  increasing  gap  that  appears  to  be  developing, 
even in the view of many of its supporters, between the 
original mandate of the Court and the way in which the 
mandate is being implemented in practice.
The ICC is a relatively young institution, and those 
who seek to ensure its integrity and effectiveness as a 
legal body have an interest in ensuring that it operates 
and  is  seen  to  be  operating  not  on  the  basis  of  what 
may be politically popular, but on the straightforward, 
impartial and independent application of the terms of 
its  own  Statute.  Unfortunately,  too  many  decisions 
and  actions  emanating  from  the  ICC  have  given 
cause for concern in that regard. In the final analysis, 
the  credibility,  legitimacy  and  standing  of  any  legal 
institution  is  earned,  not  given.  It  must  be  built 
incrementally  on  firm  jurisdictional  ground,  and  it 
is  only  as  strong  as  the  quality  of  its  legal  decisions, 
the integrity of its processes over time and the choices 
that  it  makes  regarding  the  allocation  of  its  time 
and resources.
While  States  parties  are  called  on  to  respect  the 
principles  of  independence  and  impartiality  on  which 
the Court was founded, we believe that the ICC’s core 
mission  is  harmed  rather  than  advanced  when  the 
international  community  gives  it  uncritical  support 
rather  than  the  serious  review  that  is  warranted.  We 
urge States, especially those that are strong supporters 
of  the  Court,  as  well  as  other  key  stakeholders,  to  be 
sensitive to the serious concerns that are being voiced 
and to become partners in an effort to better align the 
functioning  of  the  ICC  with  its  founding  principles 
and objectives.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  after 
the voting.
Several  speakers  have  requested  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  would  like  to  remind 
members that statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and five minutes for the second and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Suárez  Moreno  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): Today the delegation of 
Peru, speaking on behalf of Argentina, Canada, Chile, 
Colombia  and  Paraguay,  spoke  out  against  Venezuela 
without  any  legal  basis  and  with  the  sole  purpose 
of  inflicting  political  damage.  If  today’s  common 
objective  is  strengthening  multilateral  institutions 
dedicated to the administration of justice, that will not 
be accomplished by turning the International Criminal 
Court into a battleground for ideological, economic and 
geopolitical interests in the service of a minority group 
of countries. The International Criminal Court already 
has  enough  enemies  who  have  publicly  declared  their 
intention to weaken its international prestige, integrity 
and autonomy. The last thing we need is the work of a 
new, now covert group of enemies of the Court trying 
to  convert  it  into  a  tool  for  carrying  out  aggression 
against third countries. They are not strengthening the 
Court that way but rather destroying it.
30/31 
18-34919
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.28
We  call  on  the  international  community  to  reject 
all  manipulations  that  masquerade  as  expressions  of 
concern about justice but that are actually coordinated 
political aggression without a basis in reality. They are 
in violation of international law and run counter to the 
spirit and purpose of the International Criminal Court.
Venezuela reiterates its support for the International 
Criminal  Court  and  its  independence,  integrity  and 
transparency  with  a  view  to  ensuring  that  those 
responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes  are  brought 
to  justice.  Finally,  we  call  on  the  Member  States  of 
the United Nations to adhere strictly to the principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and the 
rules of international law.
Mr. Islam (Bangladesh): I am exercising the right 
of  reply  in  reference  to  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Myanmar.
The Pre-Trial Chamber’s ruling in the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) confirms the jurisdiction of the 
Court  over  the  forced  deportation  from  Myanmar  to 
Bangladesh, which is a State party to the Rome Statute. 
The  Myanmar  delegation  appears  to  have  conflated 
the issue of jurisdiction. We do not agree that the issue 
of  accountability  would  be  hard  to  reconcile  with  the 
bilateral agreements between Bangladesh and Myanmar 
on  the  question  of  the  safe,  dignified  and  voluntary 
return  of  the  Rohingya.  We  have  always  maintained 
that  accountability  is  a  critical  aspect  in  restoring 
confidence among the Rohingya for their return.
Bangladesh remains committed to working together 
with  Myanmar  and  any  interested  Member  States 
in  facilitating  the  Rohingya  repatriation.  We  expect 
Myanmar  to  initiate  the  necessary  national  judicial 
mechanisms  to  prosecute  the  gravest  crimes  under 
international  law,  including  those  committed  against 
the  Rohingya.  However,  in  the  face  of  the  repeated 
unwillingness  of  the  State  concerned  to  do  so,  the 
international  community  has  a  responsibility  to  take 
action against impunity. In that regard, the ICC’s role 
as the court of last resort can in no way be discounted.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 77?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
18-34919
31/31
