United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
24th plenary meeting
Thursday, 25 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.24
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 76
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/73/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/319)
The Acting President: I will now make a statement 
on behalf of the President of the General Assembly.
to  congratulate 
the 
International Court of Justice on the election of new 
judges, including the President and Vice-President 
of the Court. Seventy-three years after its founding, 
the Court, a hallmark component of the Charter of 
the United Nations, remains as relevant as ever.
“First,  I  would 
like 
system  and  global 
their 
“In  the  face  of  the  headwinds  against  the 
institutions, 
multilateral 
including  direct  attacks  on 
legitimacy, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  stands  as  a 
testament  to  the  principles  of  peace  and  justice 
in  a  multilateral  world.  Today’s  debate  builds  on 
50  years  of  exchange  between  the  Court  and  the 
General  Assembly,  allowing  Member  States  the 
opportunity to debate the work of the Court. That 
historic  exchange  is  particularly  pertinent  to  the 
seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which aims to make the United Nations relevant to 
all. The Court system serves as a bulwark against 
arbitrariness  and  provides  a  mechanism  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  guaranteeing  the 
stability so necessary for international cooperation. 
For the peoples of the world, the Court may be far 
away, but its impact is real.
into 
“I  am  encouraged  by 
the  continued  and 
enhanced  confidence  in  the  International  Court 
of  Justice.  Not  only  has  the  Court’s  workload 
increased  over  the  past  20  years,  but  that  trend 
has  continued 
the  period  under  review, 
demonstrating  unequivocally  that  there  remains  a 
need and a desire for a multilateral mechanism to 
address  legal  challenges  of  international  concern. 
The  variety  of  cases  addressed  by  the  Court  and 
the fact that those cases stem from four continents 
are also testament to the universality of the Court. 
In  fact,  as  of  today,  a  total  of  73  Member  States 
have  accepted  as  compulsory  the  jurisdiction  of 
the Court.
“In  addition  to  the  Court’s  role  in  advancing 
multilateralism, 
judgments  and  advisory 
opinions  directly  influence  the  development  and 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  in  countries  the 
world over. As stated in the report of the Court:
its 
‘Everything  the  Court  does  is  aimed  at 
promoting  and  reinforcing  the  rule  of  law; 
through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions, 
it  contributes  to  developing  and  clarifying 
international law.’ (A/73/4, para. 16)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-33984 (E)
*1833984*

A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
in  regions 
tensions  simmer 
“Finally,  at  a  time  when  human  rights  abuses 
and  conflicts  devastate  the  lives  of  millions  and 
when 
throughout 
the  world,  the  adjudication  of  disputes  between 
States  remains  an  essential  role  of  the  Court  in 
preserving  peace  and  security.  We  welcome  the 
Court’s  continued  readiness  to  intervene  when 
other  diplomatic  or  political  means  have  proved 
unsuccessful.  For  Member  States,  respect  for  the 
decisions,  judgments,  advice  and  orders  of  the 
Court remains critical to the efficacy and longevity 
of  the  international  justice  system.  The  General 
Assembly has therefore called on States that have 
not yet done so to consider accepting the jurisdiction 
of the Court, in accordance with its statute.
“In conclusion, allow me to reiterate that if we are 
to  preserve  the  international  multilateral  system, 
adherence  to  and  respect  for  international  law 
remain key. I thank the Court for sharing its report 
and wish the Assembly a successful debate.”
It  is  now  my  honour  to  invite  Judge  Abdulqawi 
Ahmed Yusuf, President of the International Court of 
Justice, to take the floor.
Judge  Yusuf,  President  of 
the  International 
Court  of  Justice:  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  address 
the  General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  since  my 
election as President in February on the occasion of its 
consideration of the annual report of the International 
Court of Justice (A/73/4). The Court greatly values this 
time-honoured tradition, which enables us to present a 
succinct overview of the Court’s judicial activities on a 
regular basis.
I am pleased to have the opportunity to do so at an 
Assembly meeting under the presidency of Ms. María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés.  I  congratulate  her  on  her 
election to the presidency of the Assembly at its seventy-
third session and wish her every success in her post.
Between 1 August 2017 — the starting date of the 
period  covered  by  the  Court’s  report  —  and  today, 
the  docket  of  the  Court  has  remained  extremely  full, 
with 17 contentious cases and one advisory proceeding 
currently  pending  before  it,  a  number  of  other  cases 
having been decided in the course of the year. Indeed, 
it has been a particularly busy and productive period.
During  that  time,  the  Court  has  held  hearings  in 
six cases. The Court first heard the oral arguments of 
the parties on the preliminary objections submitted by 
France in the case concerning Immunities and Criminal 
Proceedings  (Equatorial  Guinea  v.  France).  It  then 
held  hearings  on  the  merits  in  the  case  concerning 
Obligation  to  Negotiate  Access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean 
(Bolivia v. Chile). In June and August, the Court heard 
the oral arguments of the parties on two requests for the 
indication of provisional measures submitted, in turn, 
in the case concerning Application of the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination  (Qatar  v.  United  Arab  Emirates)  and 
in  the  case  concerning Alleged Violations of the 1955 
Treaty  of  Amity,  Economic  Relations,  and  Consular 
Rights  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  v.  United  States  of 
America).  In  September,  the  Court  heard  the  oral 
statements  of  the  participants  in  the  proceedings  on 
the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  submitted  by  the 
General Assembly in respect of the Legal consequences 
of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  from 
Mauritius  in  1965.  Finally,  a  few  weeks  ago,  it  held 
hearings  on  the  preliminary  objections  submitted  by 
the  United  States  of  America  in  the  case  concerning 
Certain  Iranian  Assets  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  v. 
United States of America).
Since 1 August 2017, the Court has also delivered 
four judgments. On 2 February, the Court rendered two 
judgments on the merits, the first one on the question of 
the compensation owed in the case concerning Certain 
Activities carried out by Nicaragua in the Border Area 
(Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua),  and  the  second  one  in  the 
joined  cases  concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the 
Caribbean  Sea  and  the  Pacific  Ocean  (Costa  Rica  v. 
Nicaragua) and Land Boundary in the Northern Part of 
Isla Portillos (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua).
On  6  June  2018,  the  Court  rendered  its  judgment 
on  the  preliminary  objections  in  the  case  concerning 
Immunities  and  Criminal  Proceedings  (Equatorial 
Guinea v. France), and on 1 October 2018, it gave its 
ruling in the case concerning Obligation to Negotiate 
Access to the Pacific Ocean (Bolivia v. Chile).
In addition, the Court issued 17 orders, including 
an  order  on  the  admissibility  of  counterclaims  in  the 
case  concerning  Alleged  Violations  of  Sovereign 
Rights  and  Maritime  Spaces  in  the  Caribbean  Sea 
(Nicaragua  v.  Colombia)  and  two  orders  indicating 
provisional measures: first, in the aforementioned case 
instituted by Qatar against the United Arab Emirates; 
and  secondly,  in  the  recently  instituted  case  between 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the  United  States  of 
America concerning alleged violations of the bilateral 
2/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
Treaty  of  Amity,  Economic  Relations,  and  Consular 
Rights of 1955.
As is customary, I shall now give a brief analysis of 
the substance of those decisions.
With 
the 
to  environmental  damage, 
I  begin  by  recalling  certain  elements  of  the 
judgments rendered in the cases opposing Costa Rica 
and Nicaragua. On 2 February, the Court rendered its 
judgment on the question of compensation in the case 
concerning Certain Activities carried out by Nicaragua 
in  the  Border  Area  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua).  In 
particular, the Court was called upon to determine the 
amount of compensation to be awarded to Costa Rica 
for  material  damage  caused  by  Nicaragua’s  unlawful 
activities  on  Costa  Rican  territory,  as  established 
in  the  Court’s  judgment  of  16  December  2015.  In 
that  connection,  it  is  recalled  that  Costa  Rica  had 
claimed  compensation  for  two  categories  of  damage: 
first,  quantifiable  environmental  damage  caused  by 
Nicaragua’s  excavation  of  two  channels  (caños)  on 
its  territory  in  2010  and  2013,  and,  secondly,  costs 
and  expenses  incurred  as  a  result  of  Nicaragua’s 
unlawful activities.
the 
respect 
include 
Court 
indicated 
indemnification 
loss  of 
environmental goods and services and payment for the 
restoration of the damaged environment when natural 
recovery might not suffice to return an environment to 
the  state  in  which  it  was  before  the  change  occurred. 
The  Court  found  in  particular  that,  in  excavating 
the  two  caños,  Nicaragua  had  removed  many  trees 
and  cleared  vegetation  and  that  those  activities  had 
significantly  affected  the  ability  of  the  two  impacted 
areas  to  provide  certain  environmental  goods  and 
services  —  namely,  trees,  other  raw  materials  (fibre 
and  energy),  gas  regulation  and  air  quality  services, 
as  well  as  biodiversity.  The  Court  stated  that  it  was 
appropriate to approach the valuation of environmental 
damage  from  the  perspective  of  the  ecosystem  as  a 
whole, and it awarded Costa Rica the sum of $120,000 
for the impairment or loss of the environmental goods 
and services of the impacted area in the period prior to 
recovery. The Court also considered that the payment of 
compensation for some restoration measures in respect 
of the wetland was justified, and it awarded Costa Rica 
the sum of $2,708.39 for that purpose.
that  compensation  could 
for 
impairment  or 
The Court then dealt with Costa Rica’s claims for 
costs and expenses incurred as a result of Nicaragua’s 
unlawful activities in the northern part of Isla Portillos, 
ruling  that  some  of  those  costs  and  expenses  had  a 
sufficiently  direct  and  certain  causal  nexus  with  the 
wrongful  conduct  of  Nicaragua.  In  particular,  the 
Court  considered  that  part  of  the  costs  and  expenses 
incurred by Costa Rica in monitoring that area, and in 
preventing  irreparable  prejudice  to  the  environment, 
including costs relating to the construction in 2015 of a 
dyke across one of the caños, was compensable. Thus, 
the  Court  awarded  Costa  Rica  a  total  of  $236,032.16 
under that heading.
Turning to Costa Rica’s claim for interest, the Court 
held  that  Costa  Rica  was  not  entitled  to  prejudgment 
interest on the amount of compensation for environmental 
damage since the Court had already taken full account 
of the impairment or loss of environmental goods and 
services  in  the  period  prior  to  recovery.  Costa  Rica 
was,  however,  awarded  prejudgment  interest  on  the 
costs and expenses found compensable, in the sum of 
$20,150.04. The Court further decided that, in the event 
of any delay in payment, post-judgment interest would 
accrue on the principal sum; that interest would be paid 
at an annual rate of 6 per cent.
The total amount of compensation awarded to Costa 
Rica was thus $378,890.59 to be paid by Nicaragua by 
2 April 2018. Following that judgment, Nicaragua, by 
a letter dated 22 March 2018, informed the Court that 
it  had  transferred  to  Costa  Rica  the  total  amount  of 
compensation awarded.
On  2  February,  the  Court  handed  down  a  second 
judgment on the merits in the joined cases concerning 
Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  the 
Pacific  Ocean  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and  Land 
Boundary in the Northern Part of Isla Portillos (Costa 
Rica  v.  Nicaragua).  I  recall  that  the  proceedings  in 
the  case  concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the 
Caribbean  Sea  and  the  Pacific  Ocean  (Costa  Rica  v. 
Nicaragua)  were  brought  by  an  application  of  Costa 
Rica on 25 February 2014. The proceedings in the case 
concerning Land Boundary in the Northern Part of Isla 
Portillos (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua) were brought by an 
application of Costa Rica on 16 January 2017. The two 
cases were joined by an order of the Court handed down 
on 2 February 2017.
The  Court  observed  in  its  judgment  that  the  case 
concerning  Land  Boundary  in  the  Northern  Part  of 
Isla  Portillos  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  raised  issues 
to 
of 
territorial  sovereignty 
that  were  expedient 
18-33984
3/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
examine first because of their possible implications for 
the  maritime  delimitation  in  the  Caribbean  Sea.  The 
Court  first  held  that  the  question  of  sovereignty  over 
the  coast  of  the  northern  part  of  Isla  Portillos  on  the 
Caribbean  Sea  had  not  been  decided  in  its  judgment 
rendered  on  16  December  2015.  It  then  recalled  that, 
according to its interpretation of the Treaty of Limits 
between Costa Rica and Nicaragua of 15 April 1858, in 
the 2015 judgment:
“the  territory  under  Costa  Rica’s  sovereignty 
extends  to  the  right  bank  of  the  Lower  San  Juan 
River as far as its mouth in the Caribbean Sea”.
Noting  that  the  report  submitted  to  it  by  Court-
appointed  experts  had  dispelled  all  uncertainty  about 
the geography of the area, the Court found that Costa 
Rica had sovereignty over the whole of Isla Portillos, 
with  the  exception  of  Harbor  Head  Lagoon  and  the 
sandbar  separating  it  from  the  Caribbean  Sea.  The 
latter features were found to be under the sovereignty 
of Nicaragua.
The  Court  then  held  that,  by  establishing  and 
maintaining  a  military  camp  on  the  beach  of  Isla 
Portillos, Nicaragua had violated Costa Rica’s territorial 
sovereignty as defined in the judgment, and ruled that 
the camp had to be removed from Costa Rica’s territory. 
The Court considered that the declaration of a violation 
of  Costa  Rica’s  sovereignty  and  the  order  addressed 
to  Nicaragua  to  remove  its  camp  from  Costa  Rica’s 
territory constituted appropriate reparation.
The  Court  next  turned  to  the  case  concerning 
Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  the 
Pacific  Ocean  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua),  beginning 
with the delimitation in the Caribbean Sea. With respect 
to  the  starting  point  for  the  delimitation,  the  Court 
considered  it  preferable,  due  to  the  great  instability 
of  the  coastline  in  the  area,  to  select  a  fixed  point  at 
sea  —  2  nautical  miles  from  the  coast  on  the  median 
line  —  and  connect  it  by  a  mobile  line  to  a  point  on 
solid land on Coast Rica’s coast that was closest to the 
mouth of the San Juan River.
The Court delimited the territorial sea, in accordance 
with article 15 of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea and with its own jurisprudence, in two 
stages: first, it drew a provisional median line; secondly, 
it considered whether any special circumstances existed 
that justified an adjustment to that line. As to special 
circumstances,  the  Court  in  particular  stated  that  the 
instability  of  the  sandbar  separating  Harbor  Head 
Lagoon from the Caribbean Sea and its situation as a 
small enclave within Costa Rica’s territory also called 
for  a  special  solution.  Noting  that  should  territorial 
waters  be  attributed  to  the  enclave,  they  would  be  of 
little use to Nicaragua, while breaking the continuity of 
Costa Rica’s territorial sea, the Court decided that the 
delimitation  in  the  territorial  sea  between  the  parties 
would not take into account any entitlement that might 
result from the enclave.
The  Court  then  proceeded  to  the  delimitation  of 
the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf, 
using its established three-stage methodology. First, it 
drew a provisional equidistance line using base points 
located on the parties’ natural coasts, including some 
Nicaraguan islands in the Caribbean Sea, among others 
the  Corn  Islands.  Secondly,  the  Court  considered 
whether there existed relevant circumstances that were 
capable of justifying an adjustment of the equidistance 
line provisionally drawn. It found in particular that, in 
view of their limited size and significant distance from 
the  mainland  coast,  the  Corn  Islands  should  be  given 
only half effect. Thirdly, the Court assessed the overall 
equitableness of the boundary resulting from the first 
two stages by checking whether there existed a marked 
disproportionality  between  the  length  of  the  parties’ 
relevant coasts and the maritime areas found to appertain 
to them. In the circumstances at hand, the Court found 
that there was no such marked disproportion.
The Court focused next on the delimitation of the 
Pacific  Ocean.  Since  Costa  Rica  and  Nicaragua  had 
agreed that the starting point of the maritime boundary 
in  the  Pacific  Ocean  should  be  the  midpoint  of  the 
closing line of Salinas Bay, the Court fixed the starting 
point of its delimitation at that location.
As it did for the Caribbean Sea, the Court proceeded 
to  delimit  the  boundary  for  the  territorial  sea  in  two 
stages. Having observed that both parties selected the 
same base points, the Court decided to use those points 
to  draw  the  provisional  median  line.  It  considered 
that there were no special circumstances justifying an 
adjustment to that line.
For 
the  purpose  of  delimiting 
the  exclusive 
economic  zone  and  the  continental  shelf,  the  Court 
again  followed  the  three-stage  methodology  adopted 
in  its  jurisprudence.  First,  it  drew  a  provisional 
equidistance line, using the base points selected by the 
parties. Secondly, it checked for relevant circumstances 
justifying an adjustment to that line, deciding to give 
4/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
half effect to the Santa Elena peninsula on Costa Rica’s 
coast  in  order  to  avoid  a  significant  cut-off  effect  of 
Nicaragua’s  coastal  projections.  Thirdly,  the  Court 
assessed  the  overall  equitableness  of  the  boundary 
resulting from the first two stages by checking whether 
there  existed  a  marked  disproportionality  between 
the  length  of  the  parties’  relevant  coasts  and  the 
maritime  areas  found  to  appertain  to  them.  It  found 
that  the  maritime  boundary  did  not  result  in  gross 
disproportionality and achieved an equitable solution.
After  the  judgment  was  rendered,  Nicaragua 
informed the Court, by a letter dated 14 February, that 
it  had  removed  its  military  camp  from  Costa  Rica’s 
territory, in accordance with point 3 (b) of the operative 
paragraph of that judgment.
(spoke in French)
The  third  judgment  of  the  Court,  the  content 
of  which  I  will  explain,  was  delivered  on  6  June.  It 
concerned the preliminary objections raised by France 
in  the  case  concerning  Immunities  and  Criminal 
Proceedings (Equatorial Guinea v. France). That case 
was  brought  by  Equatorial  Guinea  on  13  June  2016 
relating  to  a  dispute  concerning  the  immunity  from 
criminal jurisdiction of the Vice-President of Equatorial 
Guinea, Mr. Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, as well 
as  the  legal  status  of  a  building  located  at  42  avenue 
Foch  in  Paris,  which  Equatorial  Guinea  claimed  was 
the premises of its embassy in France. In its application, 
Equatorial Guinea intended to base the jurisdiction of 
the Court on article 35 of the United Nations Convention 
against Transnational Organized Crime, or the Palermo 
Convention, and on article 1 of the Optional Protocol 
to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations, 
concerning the Compulsory Settlement of Disputes.
On 31 March 2017, France raised three preliminary 
objections.  With  regard  to  France’s  first  preliminary 
objection,  relating  to  the  Palermo  Convention,  the 
Court  concluded  in  its  judgment  that  the  rules  of 
customary international law governing the immunities 
of  States  and  their  agents  were  not  incorporated  in 
article  4  of  the  Convention.  However,  the  aspect  of 
the  dispute  concerning  the  immunity  invoked  in 
favour  of  the  Vice-President  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
and  the  immunity  invoked  in  favour  of  the  building 
located  at  42  Avenue  Foch  in  Paris  did  not  relate  to 
the  interpretation  or  the  application  of  the  Palermo 
Convention. The Court therefore considered that it did 
not have jurisdiction to rule on that aspect of the dispute. 
turned 
The  Court 
It then noted that Equatorial Guinea had also based on 
the Palermo Convention its complaints relating to the 
excessive  criminal  jurisdiction  that  it  accused  France 
of exercising in order to identify “predicate offences” 
associated with the offence of money laundering. The 
Court considered that the violations of which Equatorial 
Guinea  was  accused  did  not  fall  under  the  provisions 
of  articles  6  and  15  of  the  Palermo  Convention  and 
that  it  was  therefore,  again,  not  competent  to  rule 
on  that  aspect  of  the  dispute.  As  a  result,  the  Court 
concluded that it did not have jurisdiction on the basis 
of  the  Palermo  Convention  and  upheld  France’s  first 
preliminary objection.
then 
to  France’s  second 
preliminary  objection,  which  concerned  jurisdiction 
under the Optional Protocol to the Vienna Convention 
on  Diplomatic  Relations,  concerning  the  Compulsory 
Settlement of Disputes. Equatorial Guinea drew on the 
Vienna  Convention  as  grounds  to  denounce  France’s 
non-compliance  with  the  inviolability  of  the  building 
located  at  42  avenue  Foch  in  Paris,  which  it  claimed 
housed its diplomatic mission. The Court noted that the 
parties disagreed as to whether the building in question 
was part of the premises of the Mission of Equatorial 
Guinea in France and could therefore benefit from the 
treatment afforded to such premises under article 22 of 
the  Vienna  Convention.  It  concluded  that  that  aspect 
of the dispute fell within the scope of the Convention 
and that it therefore had jurisdiction in the dispute over 
the  status  of  the  building  in  question,  including  any 
claims  relating  to  the  furnishings  and  other  property 
present  on  the  premises  at  42  avenue  Foch  in  Paris. 
Consequently,  the  Court  rejected  France’s  second 
preliminary objection.
Lastly, 
the  Court  examined  France’s 
third 
preliminary objection, according to which the conduct 
of  Equatorial  Guinea  amounted  to  an  abuse  of  rights 
and the referral to the Court an abuse of procedure. In 
the Court’s view, that preliminary objection concerned 
the admissibility of the application. The Court observed 
that an abuse of process related to proceedings initiated 
before  a  court  or  tribunal  and  could  be  considered  at 
the  preliminary  stage  of  such  proceedings.  However, 
the  Court  added  that  only  exceptional  circumstances 
could  justify  its  dismissal  of  an  application  for  abuse 
of process on the basis of applicable jurisdiction. The 
Court  deemed  that  such  were  not  the  circumstances 
in  that  particular  case.  With  respect  to  the  abuse  of 
rights, the Court stated that such could not be invoked 
18-33984
5/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
as grounds for inadmissibility when the establishment 
of  the  right  in  question  fell  within  the  scope  of  the 
merits  of  the  case.  Accordingly,  the  Court  held  that 
any  argument  relating  to  an  abuse  of  rights  would  be 
considered at the substantive stage. The Court therefore 
did  not  consider  Equatorial  Guinea’s  application 
inadmissible on grounds of abuse of process or abuse 
of  rights  and  rejected  the  third  preliminary  objection 
raised by France.
As  in  its  judgment  the  Court  declared  itself 
competent  on  the  basis  of  the  Optional  Protocol  to 
the Vienna Convention, the proceedings on the merits 
resumed.  By  an  order  made  on  the  same  day  as  its 
judgment, namely, 6 June, the Court set 6 December as 
the time limit for France to submit its counter-memorial.
I  now  come  to  the  fourth  judgment  of  the  Court 
during  the  period  in  question.  In  the  judgment  of 
1 October, the Court decided on the merits of the case 
concerning  the  Obligation  to  Negotiate  Access  to  the 
Pacific  Ocean  (Bolivia  v.  Chile).  I  would  recall  that 
that  application  was  introduced  on  24  April  2013  by 
the Plurinational State of Bolivia against the Republic 
of  Chile  concerning  a  dispute  in  relation  to  “Chile’s 
obligation  to  negotiate  in  good  faith  and  effectively 
with  Bolivia  in  order  to  reach  an  agreement  granting 
Bolivia a fully sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean”.
After  presenting  the  historical  background  of  the 
dispute,  in  its  judgment  the  Court  proceeded  to  the 
systematic  examination  of  the  eight  separate  legal 
grounds  invoked  by  Bolivia  in  support  of  its  claim. 
The  Court  first  considered  Bolivia’s  argument  based 
on bilateral instruments, concluding that none of those 
instruments  established  an  obligation  on  Chile  to 
negotiate Bolivia’s sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. 
The Court also did not find convincing the argument that 
Chile’s declarations and other unilateral acts created an 
obligation to negotiate Bolivia’s sovereign access to the 
sea. It noted that those declarations and unilateral acts 
did not indicate the defendant having undertaken a legal 
obligation but rather that the defendant was willing to 
enter into negotiations.
Turning to the consideration of Bolivia’s argument 
based  on  acquiescence,  the  Court  noted  that  Bolivia 
had not identified any declaration requiring a response 
or  reaction  from  Chile  to  prevent  an  obligation  from 
arising.  The  Court  concluded  therefrom  that  the 
acquiescence could not therefore be considered a legal 
basis of an obligation to negotiate Bolivia’s sovereign 
access  to  the  sea.  The  Court  then  turned  to  Bolivia’s 
argument based on estoppel, concluding that, although 
Chile  had  repeatedly  stated  that  it  was  willing  to 
negotiate  Bolivia’s  sovereign  access  to  the  sea,  such 
representations  did  not  establish  an  obligation  to 
negotiate, as it had not been demonstrated that Bolivia 
had changed its position to its detriment or to Chile’s 
advantage on the basis of those representations.
in  refusing 
With regard to the argument that the fact that the 
respondent,  in  challenging  its  obligation  to  negotiate 
and 
to  conduct  further  negotiations 
with  Bolivia,  had  prevented  the  latter’s  legitimate 
expectations from prevailing, the Court concluded that, 
even if reference was made to legitimate expectations 
in  certain  judgments  of  arbitral  tribunals  concerning 
investment  disputes,  it  did  not  follow  that  there  was 
a  principle  in  general  international  law  based  on 
legitimate expectations that could lead to an obligation.
The Court also concluded that it could not accept 
the  argument  that  an  obligation  to  negotiate  Bolivia’s 
sovereign access to the sea could be based on Article 
2, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations or 
article 3 of the Charter of the Organization of American 
States,  since  those  provisions  prescribed  only  that 
States  should  settle  their  disputes  by  peaceful  means 
or  procedures,  without  imposing  a  specific  method 
of  settlement,  such  as  negotiation.  It  also  considered 
Bolivia’s  argument  that  certain  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States  confirmed  Chile’s  commitment  to  negotiating 
Bolivia’s sovereign access to the sea. The Court could 
not accept that argument, as none of those resolutions 
indicated that Chile had an obligation to negotiate and 
that  both  parties  had  recognized  that  the  resolutions 
were not binding as such.
Finally, the Court found that, having concluded that 
there  was  no  such  obligation  arising  from  any  of  the 
invoked  legal  bases  taken  individually,  a  cumulative 
consideration  of  the  various  bases  could  not  add  to 
the  overall  result.  The  Court  therefore  concluded 
that  Chile  had  not  undertaken  a  legal  obligation  to 
negotiate  Bolivia’s  sovereign  access  to  the  Pacific 
Ocean. However, it added — and I would like to stress 
this  —  that  its  finding  should  not  be  understood  as 
precluding  the  parties  from  continuing  their  dialogue 
and exchanges, in a spirit of good-neighbourliness, to 
address the issues relating to the landlocked situation of 
Bolivia, the solution to which they have both recognized 
to be a matter of mutual interest.
6/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
I  will  now  report  on  three  non-judicial  orders 
issued  by  the  Court  during  the  reporting  period. 
I  would  first  like  to  mention  the  Court’s  order  of 
15  November  2017  on  the  counter-claims  filed  in  the 
case concerning Alleged Violations of Sovereign Rights 
and Maritime Spaces in the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua 
v. Colombia). I recall that, on 26 November 2013, the 
Republic  of  Nicaragua  instituted  proceedings  against 
the Republic of Colombia, alleging specific violations 
of  Nicaragua’s  sovereign  rights  and  maritime  zones 
declared  by  the  Court’s  judgment  of  19  November 
2012.  On  19  December  2014,  Colombia 
raised 
preliminary objections to the jurisdiction of the Court. 
By a judgment dated 17 March 2016, the Court found 
that  it  had  jurisdiction,  on  the  basis  of  article  XXXI 
of  the  Pact  of  Bogotá,  to  adjudicate  upon  the  dispute 
between Nicaragua and Colombia regarding the alleged 
violations  by  Colombia  of  Nicaragua’s  rights  in  the 
maritime  zones  which,  according  to  Nicaragua,  the 
Court declared appertain to Nicaragua in its judgment 
of 19 November 2012.
In  its  counter-memorial  filed  on  17  November 
2016,  Colombia  submitted  four  counter-claims.  The 
first  and  second  were  based  on  Nicaragua’s  alleged 
violation  of  its  duty  of  due  diligence  to  protect  and 
preserve the marine environment of the south-western 
Caribbean  Sea  and  the  right  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
San  Andrés  archipelago  to  benefit  from  a  healthy, 
sound and sustainable environment; the third concerned 
Nicaragua’s  alleged  infringement  upon  the  customary 
artisanal  fishing  rights  of  the  local  inhabitants  of  the 
San  Andrés  archipelago  to  access  and  exploit  their 
traditional  fishing  grounds;  and  the  fourth  concerned 
the  adoption  by  Nicaragua  of  Decree  No.  33-2013  of 
19  August  2013,  which  established  straight  baselines 
and, according to Colombia, had the effect of extending 
Nicaragua’s internal waters and maritime zones beyond 
what international law permits.
In  its  order,  the  Court  began  by  recalling  that 
under  article  80,  paragraph  1,  of  the  rules  of  Court, 
two requirements must be met for the Court to be able 
to  entertain  a  counterclaim  as  such,  namely,  that  the 
counterclaim come within the jurisdiction of the Court 
and that it be directly connected with the subject matter 
of the claim of the other party. The Court concluded that 
there was no direct connection, either in fact or in law, 
between Colombia’s first and second counterclaims and 
Nicaragua’s  principal  claims.  It  therefore  found  that 
those two counterclaims were inadmissible as such. In 
addition,  the  Court  considered  that  Colombia’s  third 
and  fourth  counterclaims  and  Nicaragua’s  principal 
claims  were  directly  connected  in  fact  and  in  law.  In 
that  regard,  the  Court  noted  that  the  facts  underlying 
their respective requests related to the same period and 
the same geographical area and were of the same nature 
insofar  as  they  alleged  similar  types  of  conduct.  The 
Court also noted that the parties had invoked the same 
legal principles and pursued the same legal aim by their 
respective claims.
The  Court  then  concluded  that  Colombia’s  third 
and  fourth  counterclaims  came  under  its  jurisdiction. 
It further recalled that once the Court has established 
jurisdiction  to  entertain  a  case,  it  has  jurisdiction  to 
deal  with  all  its  phases;  the  subsequent  lapse  of  the 
title cannot deprive the Court of its jurisdiction. In the 
present case, the subsequent termination of the Pact of 
Bogotá between the parties, which followed the filing 
of  the  application,  did  not  deprive  the  Court  of  its 
jurisdiction to entertain those counter-claims filed by 
Colombia on that legal basis. The Court therefore found 
that  Colombia’s  third  and  fourth  counterclaims  were 
admissible  as  such.  It  also  ordered  the  submission  of 
a reply from Nicaragua and a rejoinder from Colombia 
on the requests of both parties and set deadlines for the 
filing of those procedural documents.
As I mentioned earlier, during the reporting period 
the  Court  also  issued  two  orders  indicating  interim 
measures, which I will briefly present in chronological 
order. On 23 July, the Court ordered interim measures in 
the case concerning the Application of the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination  (Qatar  v.  United  Arab  Emirates).  The 
case  was  brought  by  Qatar  on  11  June  against  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  concerning  alleged  violations 
of  the  International  Convention  on  the  Elimination 
of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination,  adopted  on 
21  December  1965.  In  its  statement  of  claim,  Qatar 
claimed that, in violation of certain rights guaranteed 
by  the  Convention,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  had 
banned  the  entry  of  all  Qataris  into  its  territory  and 
expelled  those  already  there.  On  the  same  day,  Qatar 
had  submitted  a  request  for  interim  measures  on  the 
protection of its rights under the Convention, pending a 
decision on the merits of the case.
In accordance with its usual method, in its order, 
the  Court  first  examined  whether  the  jurisdictional 
clause  contained  in  article  22  of  the  Convention 
conferred  on  it  prima  facie  jurisdiction  to  hear  the 
18-33984
7/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
merits of the case. It considered that the acts mentioned 
by  Qatar  were  likely  to  fall  within  the  scope  ratione 
materiae of the Convention. The Court found that the 
evidence available to it at that stage of the proceedings 
was sufficient to support the existence of a dispute as 
to the interpretation or application of the Convention. 
It also found that the procedural conditions previously 
applicable to it, as set out in article 22 of the Convention, 
had  been  met.  It  concluded  that,  prima  facie,  it  had 
jurisdiction under that article.
The  Court 
then  examined 
the  rights  whose 
protection was sought, noting that the measures taken 
by  the  United  Arab  Emirates  appeared  to  target  only 
Qataris,  without  regard  to  the  individual  situation  of 
the  persons  concerned,  and  that  they  could  constitute 
acts of racial discrimination under the Convention. The 
Court found that at least some of the rights claimed by 
Qatar under article 5 of the Convention were plausible. 
That  applies,  for  example,  to  the  right  to  marry  and 
choose a spouse, the right to education, as well as the 
rights  to  freedom  of  movement  and  access  to  justice. 
The Court also concluded that there was a link between 
the  rights  for  which  protection  was  sought  and  the 
interim  measures  requested  by  Qatar.  The  Court  was 
also of the view that some of the rights in question were 
such that any prejudice to them could prove irreparable 
and that there was therefore urgency.
The Court therefore concluded that the conditions 
for  which  the  Statute  of  the  Court  required  the 
indication  of  interim  measures  were  met.  It  decided 
that, in order to protect Qatar’s substantive rights, the 
United Arab Emirates should ensure that, first, Qatari-
Emirati families separated as a result of the measures 
on 5 June 2017 are reunited; secondly, Qatari students 
affected by the measures adopted on 5 June 2017 could 
complete their studies in the United Arab Emirates or 
obtain their academic records if they wished to study 
elsewhere; and thirdly, Qataris affected by the measures 
adopted on 5 June 2017 could have access to the courts 
and other judicial bodies of the United Arab Emirates. 
The  Court  also  called  on  both  parties  to  refrain  from 
any  action  that  could  aggravate  or  extend  the  dispute 
or make it more difficult to resolve. By an order issued 
on 25 July, the Court set the deadline for the filing of a 
memorial by the State of Qatar and a counter-memorial 
by the United Arab Emirates.
On  3  October,  the  Court  issued  a  second  order 
indicating provisional measures in the case concerning 
Alleged violations of the 1955 Treaty of Amity, Economic 
Relations,  and  Consular  Rights  (Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  v.  United  States  of  America).  On  16  July,  Iran 
began proceedings against the United States concerning 
alleged violations of the 1955 Treaty of Amity, Economic 
Relations and Consular Rights, which I will refer to as 
the 1955 Treaty. In its statement of claim, Iran stated 
in  particular  that  the  dispute  concerned  the  decision 
of the United States, announced on 8 May, to reinstate 
restrictive measures directly or indirectly targeting Iran 
and Iranian nationals and companies — measures that 
the United States had previously decided to lift as part 
of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which I will 
refer to as the action plan. According to the applicant, 
such measures are a violation by the United States of 
certain obligations under the 1955 Treaty, in particular 
those  relating  to  fair  and  equitable  treatment,  the 
prohibition of restrictions on payments and freedom of 
trade. Iran intended to base the Court’s jurisdiction on 
Article 36, paragraph 1, of the Statute and article XXI, 
paragraph  2,  of  the  1955  Treaty,  the  latter  provision 
being  an  arbitration  clause  by  which  the  parties  had 
agreed to refer to the Court any dispute between them 
concerning  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the 
Treaty  not  satisfactorily  adjusted  through  diplomacy, 
unless  they  had  agreed  to  settlement  by  some  other 
pacific means.
Iran also submitted a request for interim measures 
on  16  July.  In  its  ruling  on  this  request,  the  Court 
began by ascertaining whether the provisions invoked 
by  the  plaintiff  appeared  to  constitute,  prima  facie, 
a  basis  on  which  to  establish  its  jurisdiction.  It  first 
ensured  that  a  dispute  existed  between  the  parties  as 
to the interpretation or application of the 1955 Treaty. 
It found that the evidence before it at that stage of the 
proceedings was sufficient to establish that the measures 
Iran  criticized  the  United  States  for  adopting  could, 
prima facie, fall within the scope ratione materiae of 
the 1955 Treaty.
The Court held that the provision relied on by the 
United  States,  which  does  not  prohibit  contracting 
parties  from  taking  certain  measures  to  protect  their 
vital security interests, did not exclude the authority it 
held  as  part  of  the  arbitration  clause  of  the  Treaty.  It 
further found that the dispute had not been satisfactorily 
settled  through  the  diplomatic  channel  and  that  the 
parties  had  not  agreed  to  settle  it  by  other  peaceful 
means. The Court concluded that the 1955 Treaty gave it 
jurisdiction, prima facie, to hear the dispute, so long as 
8/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
the dispute concerned the interpretation or application 
of the Treaty.
The  Court  then  turned  its  attention  to  the  rights 
for protection that had been sought. It considered that 
the rights claimed by Iran were plausible, to the extent 
that they were based on a possible interpretation of the 
1955 Treaty and on the prima facie establishment of the 
relevant  facts,  and  that  the  exercise  of  some  of  these 
rights  was  likely  to  be  undermined  by  the  measures 
adopted  by  the  United  States.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Court found it necessary to take into account the fact 
that the United States invoked paragraph 1 of article XX 
of the 1955 Treaty to assert its vital security interests. 
It  noted  that  these  interests  may  affect  at  least  some 
of the rights guaranteed to Iran under the 1955 Treaty 
but,  all  things  considered,  would  not  affect  others  in 
the same way. Iran’s rights, the exercise of which could 
be threatened, included those related to the importation 
and  purchase  of  goods  necessary  for  humanitarian 
purposes,  such  as  medicines  and  medical  equipment, 
food and agricultural products, and goods and services 
necessary for the safety of civil aviation, such as spare 
parts,  equipment  and  related  services  required  for 
civil aircraft.
The Court then turned to the question of the link 
between the rights claimed by Iran and the provisional 
measures it requested. The Court concluded that there 
was a link between some of these rights, the protection 
of  which  was  sought,  and  certain  aspects  of  the 
provisional  measures  requested.  It  further  considered 
that there was always a risk that the measures taken by 
the United States would have irreparable consequences 
and that this was therefore a matter of urgency. For all 
of  these  considerations,  the  Court  concluded  that  the 
conditions under which its Statute would support these 
provisional  measures  were  indeed  met.  It  therefore 
indicated the following precautionary measures.
First,  the  United  States  must,  through  means  of 
its  own  choosing,  remove  any  impediment  that  the 
measures announced on 8 May pose to free export to the 
territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran of medicines 
and medical equipment; food and agricultural products; 
and  spare  parts,  equipment  and  related  services, 
including post-sale services, maintenance, repairs and 
inspections  necessary  for  the  safety  of  civil  aviation. 
Secondly,  the  United  States  must  ensure  that,  where 
the goods and services referred to in the first part are 
concerned,  the  necessary  permits  and  authorizations 
are granted and payments and other transfers of funds 
are unrestricted. Thirdly, the two parties must refrain 
from taking any action that might aggravate or extend 
the  dispute  before  the  Court  or  otherwise  render  a 
solution more difficult.
(spoke in English)
I  will  now  turn  to  the  new  cases  brought  before 
the  Court.  In  addition  to  the  two  cases  just  referred 
to — between Qatar and the United Arab Emirates and 
between  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the  United 
States  of  America,  in  which  the  Court  issued  orders 
indicating provisional measures — a further four sets 
of  contentious  proceedings  have  been  instituted  since 
1 August 2017.
On 29 March, the Co-operative Republic of Guyana 
instituted proceedings against the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela with regard to a dispute concerning “the 
legal validity and binding effect of the Award regarding 
the  Boundary  between  the  Colony  of  British  Guiana 
and the United States of Venezuela, of 3 October 1899”. 
In its application, Guyana claims that the 1899 award 
was a full and final settlement of all questions relating 
to the determination of the boundary line between the 
colony  of  British  Guiana  and  Venezuela  but  that,  for 
the first time in 1962, Venezuela contested the award as 
arbitrary and null and void.
According to Guyana, this dispute remains ongoing. 
Guyana  therefore  requests  the  Court  to  confirm  the 
validity  of  the  1899  award  and  to  order  Venezuela  to 
respect  the  boundary  established  pursuant  to  that 
award. From the outset, Venezuela has challenged the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  to  entertain  the  case.  By  an 
order dated 19 June, the Court decided that the written 
pleadings in the case should first address the question 
of  its  jurisdiction.  It  fixed  the  respective  time  limits 
for the filing of a memorial by Guyana and a counter-
memorial by Venezuela.
Two  further  sets  of  proceedings  were  brought 
before  the  Court  on  4  July.  First,  the  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates submitted 
to the Court a joint application constituting an appeal 
against  the  decision  rendered  by  the  Council  of  the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO)  on 
29 June. That took place in the context of proceedings 
initiated by the State of Qatar against those four States 
on  30  October  2017,  pursuant  to  article  84  of  the 
Convention on International Civil Aviation, also known 
as the Chicago Convention.
18-33984
9/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
Secondly,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
submitted  to  the  Court  another  joint  application 
constituting  an  appeal  against  the  decision  rendered 
by the ICAO Council in proceedings initiated by Qatar 
against those three States on 30 October 2017, pursuant 
to article II, section 2, of the International Air Services 
Transit Agreement. The factual background of the two 
cases  is  the  same.  According  to  the  applications,  on 
5  June  2017,  after  Qatar  had  allegedly  failed  to  abide 
by its commitments under a series of instruments and 
undertakings  referred  to  collectively  as  the  Riyadh 
Agreements,  the  applicants  adopted  measures  that 
included  airspace  restrictions  to  aircraft  registered 
in Qatar.
On 30 October 2017, Qatar instituted proceedings 
against  the  applicants  before  ICAO,  alleging  that  the 
airspace  restrictions  violated  the  Chicago  Convention 
and the International Air Services Transit Agreement. 
In  those  ICAO  proceedings,  the  applicants  raised 
preliminary  objections,  which  were  rejected  in  two 
decisions of the ICAO Council rendered on 29 June 2018. 
Those  are  the  two  decisions  that  are  being  appealed 
before the International Court of Justice. Orders dated 
25 July 2018 in the two cases fixed the respective time 
limits for the filing of a memorial by the applicants and 
a counter-memorial by Qatar.
On  28  September  2018,  the  State  of  Palestine 
instituted  proceedings  against  the  United  States  of 
America with respect to a dispute concerning alleged 
violations  of  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic 
Relations  of  18  April  1961.  It  is  recalled  that,  on 
5 July 2018, Palestine had filed a declaration pursuant 
to  Security  Council  resolution  9  (1946),  whereby  it 
accepted the jurisdiction of the Court for the settlement 
of  disputes  under  article  I  of  the  Optional  Protocol 
to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations 
Concerning the Compulsory Settlement of Disputes, to 
which the State of Palestine acceded on 22 March 2018. 
In its application, the State of Palestine contends that it 
flows from the Vienna Convention that the diplomatic 
mission of a sending State must be established on the 
territory of the receiving State.
That  completes  my  summary  of  the  Court’s 
extensive  judicial  activities  over  the  past  year.  In  the 
spirit  of  transparency,  I  would  now  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to touch upon the question of extrajudicial 
activities  that  members  of  the  Court  occasionally 
undertake,  particularly  in  the  field  of  international 
arbitration.  The  Court  is  cognizant  of  the  fact  that, 
while the judicial settlement of disputes offered by the 
Court is enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, 
for several reasons States may be interested in settling 
their disputes by arbitration. In such instances, members 
of the Court have sometimes been called upon by States 
to sit on the arbitral tribunal in question, dealing with 
inter-State  disputes  in  some  cases  and  investor-State 
disputes in others. That is, of course, a testament to the 
high esteem in which the Court’s judges are held by the 
international community.
Over the years, the Court has taken the view that, 
in certain circumstances, its members may participate 
in arbitration proceedings. However, in the light of its 
ever-increasing workload, a few months ago the Court 
decided  to  review  that  practice  and  to  set  out  clearly 
defined  rules  regulating  such  activities.  As  a  result, 
last month members of the Court came to the decision 
that  they  would  not  normally  agree  to  participate 
in  international  arbitration.  In  particular,  they  will 
not  participate  in  investor-State  arbitration  or  in 
commercial arbitration.
However,  in  the  event  that  they  are  called  upon 
exceptionally by one or more States that would prefer 
to  resort  to  arbitration  instead  of  judicial  settlement, 
the Court has decided that, in order to render service 
to those States, it will, if the circumstances so warrant, 
authorize  its  members  to  participate  in  inter-State 
arbitration  cases.  Even  in  such  exceptional  cases,  a 
member  of  the  Court,  if  authorized,  will  participate 
in  only  one  arbitration  procedure  at  a  time.  Prior 
authorization must have been granted for that purpose 
in  accordance  with  the  mechanism  put  in  place  by 
the Court.
However,  members  of  the  Court  will  decline  to 
be  appointed  as  arbitrators  by  a  State  that  is  party  to 
a  case  pending  before  the  Court,  even  if  there  is  no 
substantial interference between that case and the case 
submitted to arbitration. That is essential to place the 
impartiality and independence of judges in the exercise 
of  their  judicial  functions  beyond  reproach.  Finally,  I 
cannot stress enough that any participation of members 
of the Court in such inter-State arbitrations is subject 
to the strict condition that their judicial activities take 
absolute precedence.
Before I come to my closing remarks, I would like 
briefly to raise an issue that is of concern to the Court 
regarding the Peace Palace, which houses the principal 
10/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
courtroom  —  the  Great  Hall  of  Justice  —  and  the 
offices of the Registry. In 2016, following inspections 
of  the  premises,  the  Peace  Palace  was  found  to 
be  contaminated  with  asbestos.  As  a  result,  the 
Netherlands  authorities  decided  that  major  works 
should  be  undertaken  to  completely  decontaminate 
and, at the same time, renovate the building. The Court 
understands that it is anticipated that the Peace Palace 
will  have  to  close  and  that  the  Registry  of  the  Court, 
including the Court’s library and archives, will have to 
be temporarily relocated to other premises for perhaps 
a  few  years.  However,  the  Court  remains  somewhat 
uninformed  as  to  the  modalities  and  time  frame  for 
that large-scale relocation. The Court has been told by 
the Netherlands authorities that details of the proposed 
relocation  plans  would  be  provided  without  delay  so 
as to ensure a smooth transition period with minimum 
disruption to its busy schedule of work.
Despite  those  assurances,  to  date  the  Court  does 
not  have  any  further  elements  of  clarification  at  its 
disposal.  That  creates  an  atmosphere  of  uncertainty 
that is not conducive to the performance of its judicial 
functions. We therefore trust that ample and adequate 
information will be received in a timely manner in the 
very near future.
That brings my first address before the Assembly as 
President of the International Court of Justice to an end. 
The Court has made every endeavour to fulfil the noble 
mission  entrusted  to  it  in  terms  of  the  advancement 
of international justice and the peaceful settlement of 
disputes  between  States.  It  has  continued  to  focus  its 
attention  on  many  complex  areas  of  international  law 
raised  by  the  multifaceted  disputes  brought  before  it. 
Those thorny legal issues often lie at the heart of the 
international  community’s  current  concerns.  In  that 
connection,  the  Court  is  acutely  aware  that,  through 
its rulings, it has a responsibility to serve all Member 
States  by  safeguarding  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations.
I am grateful for having been given the opportunity 
to address the Assembly today, and I wish the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session every success.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
International Court of Justice.
Mr. Špaček (Slovakia): On behalf of the Visegrad 
Group,  namely,  the  Czech  Republic,  Hungary,  Poland 
and  my  own  country,  Slovakia,  I  thank  the  President 
of the International Court of Justice, Judge Abdulqawi 
Ahmed Yusuf, for presenting the report on the work of 
the Court during the period 1 August 2017 to 31 July 
2018 (A/73/4). I would also like to congratulate Judge 
Yusuf  on  his  election  as  the  Court’s  President  in 
February  this  year  and  to  acknowledge  the  Court’s 
achievements under his leadership.
I have the honour to present the common position 
of  the  Visegrad  countries  with  respect  to  the  Court’s 
report.  Let  me  begin  by  underlining  the  key  and 
irreplaceable role of the International Court of Justice, 
the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between  States. 
The  increasing  number  of  States  submitting  their 
differences  to  the  Court’s  adjudication  reflects  their 
confidence  in  the  Court.  During  the  period  under 
consideration,  five  new  contentious  proceedings  have 
been instituted before the Court and three judgments in 
four cases and several orders have been delivered by the 
Court. They are testimony to both the trustfulness and 
the  efficiency  of  the  Court  in  rendering  international 
justice. The countries of the Visegrad Group are strong 
supporters of the Court, and they appreciate the Court’s 
remarkable long-term contribution to the prevention of 
conflicts and to the enhancement of good and friendly 
relations among States.
With respect to the Court’s report, I would like to 
address two issues that are mutually inseparable. The 
first  concerns  the  broadening  of  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction.  The  Statute  of  the  Court  offers 
States  various  means  of  acceptance  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction. Currently, 73 States out of the 193 States 
parties  to  the  Court’s  Statute  accept  the  Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction under Article 36, paragraph 2, 
of the Statute. Special agreements on the submission of 
differences  between  States  to  the  Court  offer  another 
means  of  accepting  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  Their 
significance should not be underestimated.
In addition, the numerous treaties that are currently 
being negotiated, whether within or outside the United 
Nations, should routinely include, as an indispensable 
component,  provisions  on  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes, including clauses on the Court’s jurisdiction 
in  terms  of  the  interpretation  and  application  of  the 
treaty in question. States should be discouraged from 
making  reservations  to  such  clauses.  The  willingness 
of  States  to  subject  their  disputes  to  the  Court  must 
go  hand  in  hand  with  their  willingness  to  implement 
the Court’s decisions in good faith. Only then will the 
18-33984
11/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
Court’s judgments and orders ensure that the system of 
international justice is truly effective.
The  second  issue  I  would  like  to  highlight  is  the 
Court’s significant contribution to the strengthening of 
the rule of law at the international level. The 17 cases on 
the Court’s agenda concern different subjects and areas 
of international law, including maritime, territorial and 
environmental issues, human rights, State immunities, 
international  responsibility,  and  the  interpretation  of 
treaties. The wide range of issues currently before the 
Court, together with the variety of regions from which 
the parties to those disputes originate, is a manifestation 
of the Court’s universal character and its indispensable 
role  in  the  noble  mission  of  the  United  Nations  to 
maintain the international legal order.
The  countries  of  the  Visegrad  Group  highly 
appreciate the achievements of the Court in interpreting, 
clarifying  and  reinforcing  international  law  and  wish 
the Court every success in its future work.
Mr. Moncada (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  for  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela to take the floor on behalf of the 
120 States members of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries on the occasion of the consideration of such 
an important agenda item.
We thank the President of the International Court 
of Justice for his presentation of the report on the work 
of the Court to the General Assembly (A/73/4).
reaffirms 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
its 
principled positions regarding the peaceful settlement 
of disputes, as well as its rejection of the use and threat 
of  use  of  force.  The  International  Court  of  Justice 
plays  an  important  role  in  promoting  the  settlement 
of  international  disputes  by  peaceful  means  in  such 
a  manner  that  international  peace  and  security  and 
justice are not endangered, as enshrined in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  in  its  Articles  33 
and 94, and in the Statute of the International Court of 
Justice itself.
Regarding  the  advisory  opinions  of  the  Court, 
considering that the Security Council has not requested 
any kind of advisory opinion from the Court since 1970, 
the Non-Aligned Movement urges the Security Council 
to make greater use of the Court, the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  source  of  advisory 
opinions  and  interpretation  of  the  relevant  rules  of 
international law, in particular on contentious issues. It 
also urges the Council to consider having its decisions 
reviewed by the Court, mindful of the need to ensure 
that it adheres to the Charter of the United Nations and 
international law. The Non-Aligned Movement invites 
the General Assembly, the organs of the United Nations 
and other specialized agencies to request the advisory 
opinion of the Court on legal matters that fall within the 
scope of its activities.
The States members of the Non-Aligned Movement 
also reaffirm the importance of the unanimous advisory 
opinion of the International Court of Justice of 8 July 
1996  on  the  Legality  of  the  threat  or  use  of  nuclear 
weapons  (A/51/218,  annex).  In  that  regard,  the  Court 
found that there exists an obligation to pursue in good 
faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to 
nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and 
effective international control. Finally, the Non-Aligned 
Movement reiterates its call upon Israel, the occupying 
Power,  to  fully  respect  the  advisory  opinion  of  the 
Court  of  9  July  2004  on  the  Legal  consequences  of 
the construction of a wall in the occupied Palestinian 
territory (see A/ES-10/273). It calls upon all States to 
ensure  that  the  provisions  set  forth  in  that  advisory 
opinion  are  respected,  with  a  view  to  ending  the 
Israeli  occupation  that  began  in  1967  and  achieving 
the  independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr. Fialho Rocha (Cabo Verde): It is my honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  Angola,  Brazil, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Mozambique, 
Portugal,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Timor-Leste  and 
my  own  country,  Cabo  Verde  —  all  States  members 
of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries 
(CPLP). Let me begin by expressing our gratitude to the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf, for his thorough report on the 
Court’s work for the judicial year 2017-2018 (A/73/4).
jurisdiction.  The  Court  holds 
The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the  only 
international  court  of  a  universal  character  with 
general 
important 
responsibilities in the international community. It also 
plays  a  fundamental  role  in  the  judicial  settlement  of 
disputes  between  States  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
international rule of law. By providing legal certainty 
and  enabling  the  peaceful  settlement  of  inter-State 
disputes,  the  Court  helps  to  prevent  disagreements 
between  States  from  erupting  into  violence.  The 
high  rate  of  compliance  with  the  Court’s  judgments 
throughout  its  history  is  very  encouraging,  as  it 
12/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
demonstrates  the  trust  of  States  in  the  independence 
and impartiality of the Court.
The Court has a crucial function in the international 
legal system and it is being increasingly recognized and 
accepted. All States Members of the United Nations are 
parties to the Statute of the Court, and 73 of those have 
recognized  its  jurisdiction  as  compulsory.  Moreover, 
approximately  300  bilateral  and  multilateral  treaties 
provide  for  the  Court  to  have  jurisdiction  over  the 
resolution of disputes arising from their application or 
interpretation. The heavy workload and the wide range 
of  subjects  on  which  the  Court  has  ruled  confirm  its 
success. It must be noted that the Court’s cases come 
from  all  over  the  world,  relate  to  a  great  variety  of 
matters and have great factual and legal complexity. That 
reaffirms the universality of the Court, the expansion 
of the scope of its work and its growing specialization. 
The  Court  is  making  impressive  efforts  to  cope  with 
the  very  demanding  level  of  activity.  However,  it  is 
also important for Member States to acknowledge the 
Court’s need for adequate resources.
The Court has often recalled that everything it does 
is aimed at promoting the rule of law. Indeed, that is so. 
It is worth mentioning the outstanding contribution of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  the  development 
of  international  law,  including  with  regard  to  the  use 
of force, the delimitation of maritime boundaries, self-
determination  and  the  immunity  of  States  and  their 
actors,  among  others.  The  judgments  and  advisory 
opinions of the Court have inspired other international 
decision-making  bodies.  Similarly,  it  is  commendable 
that  the  Court  also  pays  due  regard  to  the  work  of 
international  tribunals.  That  positive  trend  should  be 
encouraged,  since  it  gives  more  coherence  and  legal 
certainty  to  the  international  system.  CPLP  member 
States  strongly  believe  that  international  tribunals 
should  cooperate  towards  the  enhancement  of  the 
international  legal  order  through  dialogue  and  cross-
fertilization.
We  acknowledge  that  tension  frequently  exists 
between  law  and  power.  The  obligation  of  States  to 
settle their disputes in a peaceful manner and the need 
for  sovereign  consent  to  resort  to  such  mechanisms 
are  sometimes  hard  to  balance.  However,  it  is  our 
firm  belief  that  the  Court  is  an  institutional  pillar  of 
the  international  community.  CPLP  member  States 
are confident that the Court will continue to overcome 
the challenges that it will increasingly be undertaken. 
The diversity and importance of the cases submitted to 
the  Court  illustrate  the  trust  that  States  put  in  it.  For 
our part, the CPLP member States pledge their strong 
support  to  the  Court  in  carrying  out  its  fundamental 
role  in  settling  the  disputes  of  States,  as  well  as  in 
strengthening  the  international  rule  of  law  towards 
justice and peace.
Ms.  Mckenna  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak today on behalf of the group of countries Canada, 
New Zealand and my own country, Australia.
The  group  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  his  report  on 
the work of the Court over the past year (A/73/4). The 
group firmly supports the Court and the international 
rules-based  order.  As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the  United  Nations,  the  Court  plays  a  critical  role  in 
facilitating the peaceful settlement of disputes between 
States  and  in  maintaining  and  promoting  the  rule  of 
law  throughout  the  world.  The  group  notes  that  over 
the  past  20  years  the  Court’s  workload  has  grown 
considerably.  The  cases  submitted  to  the  Court  cover 
a  diverse  geographical  spread  of  States  and  involve 
a  wide  variety  of  subject  matters.  The  willingness  of 
States to entrust the Court with their disputes reflects 
their  deep  respect  for  the  Court  and  underlines  the 
Court’s  institutional  significance  as  a  mechanism  for 
States to resolve their disputes peacefully.
The  importance  that  the  Canada-Australia-New 
Zealand group of countries attaches to the role of the 
Court  and  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  in 
accordance  with  international  law  is  reflected  in  our 
acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. 
The  group  is  convinced  that  the  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction by the widest possible 
assembly of States enables the Court to most effectively 
fulfil  its  role  by  broadening  the  options  available  to 
States to resolve their disputes and by allowing it to focus 
its attention on the substance of disputes more quickly. 
In that regard, the group recalls resolution 72/119 and 
urges States that have not yet done so to deposit with 
the  Secretary-General  a  declaration  of  acceptance  of 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
Finally, Canada, Australia and New Zealand would 
like to take this opportunity to acknowledge and thank 
Judge Owada and Judge Greenwood for their substantial 
contribution  to  the  Court  and  to  the  development  of 
international law. The group of countries congratulates 
Judge Salam and Judge Iwasawa on their election to the 
Court, as well as President Yusuf and Judge Abraham, 
18-33984
13/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
Judge Cançado Trindade and Judge Bhandari on their 
re-election.
Canada, Australia and New Zealand appreciate the 
Court’s efforts to manage its demanding caseload. We 
encourage it to continue its efforts to provide timely and 
appropriate responses to urgent situations and to ensure 
high  levels  of  efficiency  and  quality  in  its  work.  The 
group  looks  forward  to  the  Court  continuing  to  fulfil 
its  mandate  with  the  same  meticulous  and  impartial 
attention as it has shown over the past year.
Mr. Jaiteh (Gambia): The Gambia has the honour 
to speak on behalf of the Group of African States. The 
African  Group  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned Countries.
At  the  outset,  the  African  Group  would  like  to 
congratulate  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  on  his 
appointment  as  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice and to thank him for the presentation of his 
detailed report (A/73/4). We would also like to extend 
our congratulations to the recently elected judges of the 
Court on their very successful election.
The  African  Group  continues  to  consider  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  to  be  the  pre-eminent 
mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  at 
the international level. It should be kept in mind that the 
Court, as a court of justice and, moreover, the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, occupies a special 
position.  Everything  that  the  Court  does  is  aimed  at 
promoting the rule of law. The World Court hands down 
judgments  and  give  advisory  opinions  in  accordance 
with its Statute, which is an integral part of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  and  thereby  contributes  to 
promoting and clarifying international law.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  reaffirmed 
confidence that States have shown in the Court’s ability 
to resolve their disputes. In particular, we are pleased 
to  see  that  States  continue  to  refer  disputes  to  the 
International Court of Justice. We commend States for 
no longer limiting their referral of cases to matters of 
little political significance, but also referring disputes 
involving weighty political issues. The number of cases 
currently pending on the Court’s docket is a reflection 
of  the  esteem  in  which  States  hold  the  International 
Court of Justice.
Notwithstanding  the  proliferation  of  international 
judicial  dispute-settlement  mechanisms  on  both  a 
specialized and a regional basis, the International Court 
of  Justice  continues  to  attract  a  wide  range  of  cases, 
covering many areas. While its determination that there 
is  an  obligation  to  cooperate  is  based  principally  on 
treaty  obligations,  the  Court  also  clearly  draws  upon 
general  principles,  particularly  in  making  the  link 
between procedural and substantive obligations.
The  principle  of  prevention,  enunciated  in  earlier 
decisions  of  the  Court,  notably  the  Corfu  Channel 
(United  Kingdom  v.  Albania)  case  and  the  advisory 
opinion on the Legality of the threat or use of nuclear 
weapons (A/51/218, annex), is drawn upon significantly 
by the Court. As such, the African Group reaffirms the 
importance of the unanimous advisory opinion issued 
on 8 July 1996 on the Legality of the threat or use of 
nuclear weapons. In that decision, the Court concluded 
that there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith 
and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear 
disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective 
international control. The African Group attaches great 
importance to that matter because Africa is a nuclear-
weapon-free zone.
After another two decades, the International Court 
of Justice again had the opportunity to decide on issues 
pertaining  to  nuclear  weapons.  The  African  Group 
notes that the Court dismissed the three cases submitted 
by the Marshall Islands on the Obligations concerning 
Negotiations relating to Cessation of the Nuclear Arms 
Race  and  to  Nuclear  Disarmament  (Marshall  Islands 
v. India), (Marshall Islands v. Pakistan) and (Marshall 
Islands  v.  United  Kingdom).  However,  it  is  worth 
keeping  in  mind  the  closeness  of  the  votes  regarding 
those cases.
from  Mauritius 
The  African  Group  commends  the  efficiency 
and professionalism with which the Court has treated 
the  request  of  the  General  Assembly,  pursuant  to  its 
resolution  71/292,  for  an  advisory  opinion  on  the 
Legal  consequences  of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos 
Archipelago 
in  1965.  Resolution 
71/292  was  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority, 
testifying  the  great  interest  that  the  membership  of 
the United Nations attaches to the Court’s opinion on 
the  matter  —  an  opinion  that  will  assist  the  United 
Nations  in  its  functions  in  relation  to  decolonization. 
The African Group welcomes the Court’s decision that 
allowed the African Union to participate in the hearings 
on  the  question  of  the  Legal  consequences  of  the 
14/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
separation of the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius 
in 1965, as mentioned in the Court’s most recent report.
We reiterate our full confidence in the Court as the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations and in its 
very balanced and respected judges. The importance of 
the advisory opinion on legal questions referred to the 
International Court of Justice cannot be overstated in 
the pursuit of the peaceful settlement of legal disputes, 
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations 
and international law.
In  conclusion,  it  is  for  the  foregoing  reasons  that 
the African Group is pleased to inform the Court that 
the  request  contained  in  document  A/73/144  for  the 
inclusion of an item entitled “Request for an advisory 
opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  the 
consequences  of  legal  obligations  of  States  under 
different  sources  of  international  law  with  respect  to 
immunities  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  and 
other  senior  officials”  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session was unanimously 
adopted by the Assembly (see A/73/PV.3). The African 
Group looks forward to engaging the General Assembly 
with a view to presenting to the Court appropriate legal 
questions on this matter.
Mr.  Mikami  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  President 
of the International Court of Justice, for his dedication 
and  leadership,  as  well  as  for  his  in-depth  and 
comprehensive report on the work of the Court (A/73/4). 
I  also  express  my  deep  appreciation  and  support  for 
the  achievements  of  the  Court  during  the  reporting 
period, as well as for the dedicated work of the Registry 
under the able guidance of the Registrar, Mr. Philippe 
Couvreur,  which  has  supported  these  achievements.  I 
would also like to express my respect to former Judge 
Hisashi Owada for his long-standing contribution to the 
Court and welcome Judge Yuji Iwasawa, who assumed 
his post as a member of the Court this year.
Japan commends the International Court of Justice, 
the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, for 
the  important  role  that  it  has  played  over  the  years 
in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes 
and the promotion of the rule of law. The rule of law 
together  with  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes  provides  the  essential  foundation  for  stable, 
rules-based  international  relations  and  are  essential 
principles  underpinning  Japan’s  foreign  policy.  Japan 
became a State party to the Statute of the Court in 1954, 
two  years  before  it  joined  the  United  Nations.  Japan 
has accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court 
since 1958.
Japan is making its own active efforts to promote 
the rule of law. Recently, we had the honour of hosting 
the  fifty-seventh  annual  session  of  the  Asian-African 
Legal  Consultative  Organization  (AALCO)  in  Tokyo. 
As  the  host  country,  Japan  took  the  initiative  to 
introduce a new agenda item, “Peaceful settlement of 
disputes”.  In  our  discussions  under  this  agenda  item, 
the attention of the members was drawn to the fact that 
the  submission  of  disputes  to  the  International  Court 
of Justice has increased progressively since the end of 
the cold war. In fact, during the 27 years since 1991, 81 
contentious cases have been submitted to the Court, in 
sharp contrast to the 67 cases brought before the Court 
in  the  45  years  from  1947  to  1991.  Today,  73  States 
have  made  the  “optional  clause”  declaration  under 
Article  36,  paragraph  2  of  the  Statute,  and  about  300 
bilateral and multilateral treaties recognize the Court’s 
jurisdiction over disputes concerning the interpretation 
or application of those treaties.
As  far  as  Asian  and  African  countries  are 
concerned,  it  was  also  pointed  out  that,  generally 
speaking, Asia-Pacific States still seem cautious about 
utilizing the International Court of Justice mechanism. 
For example, as of 1 October, only eight Asia-Pacific 
States  had  made  the  “optional  clause”  declaration, 
which  represents  15  per  cent  of  the  Group  of  Asia-
Pacific  States  members.  The  increase  in  the  number 
of  cases  brought  before  the  Court  speaks  for  itself, 
in  that  more  and  more  States  respect  and  support 
the legal wisdom of the Court and the role it plays in 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes.  In 
order  to  encourage  other  States  to  follow  suit,  Japan 
sincerely hopes that the Court will continue to deliver 
fair judgments and advisory opinions that can enjoy the 
confidence of States. Japan believes that this is the only 
way  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  enhance 
its  credibility  in  the  international  community  in  the 
long run.
The  international  community  today  enjoys  the 
benefit  of  numerous  peaceful  means  of  dispute 
settlement other than the International Court of Justice, 
such as the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, 
arbitral  tribunals,  international  investment  tribunals 
and the dispute-settlement system of the World Trade 
Organization.  Japan  welcomes  the  availability  of 
diverse  forums  to  settle  legal  disputes  and  views  the 
18-33984
15/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
current trend of States utilizing these various means as 
appropriate, but there is no doubt that the International 
Court  of  Justice  occupies  a  special  and  central  place 
among them.
In  the  AALCO  conference,  it  was  also  pointed 
out by Mr. Miguel de Serpa Soares, Under-Secretary-
General  for  Legal  Affairs  and  United  Nations  Legal 
Counsel, that disputes between States may be “inherent 
to  the  process  by  which  international  law  is  made”. 
In  this  regard,  given  the  increasing  diversification  of 
the means of peaceful settlement, Japan would like to 
encourage  international  courts  and  tribunals  to  make 
efforts  to  ensure  the  consistency  of  jurisprudence 
created by these courts and tribunals in order to avoid 
the fragmentation of international law.
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  our  unwavering 
support for the Court. We are convinced that the Court 
will  continue  to  make  a  significant  contribution  to 
clarifying international law, thereby strengthening the 
rule of law.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Sudan  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  by 
the  representatives  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela and the Gambia on behalf of the Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the  Group  of  African 
States, respectively.
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  International 
Court of Justice (A/73/4). We would like to thank Judge 
Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  President  of  the  Court,  for 
introducing the report, which reflects the activities and 
work  of  the  Court  during  the  reporting  period.  Every 
year  since  1968,  the  General  Assembly  has  taken  up 
consideration of the report of the International Court of 
Justice as an integral part of efforts aimed at promoting 
relations  between  the  two  main  organs  of  the  United 
Nations — the Court itself and the General Assembly.
It  is  undeniable  that  the  role  the  Court  plays  is 
important. First of all, it contributes to the promotion 
of peace. Indeed, the United Nations was established to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  provides,  as  one 
of  the  Organization’s  objectives,  that  conditions  are 
to  be  established  that  lead  to  maintaining  justice  and 
upholding international law.
Accordingly,  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
as  the  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations, 
plays a key role. Although judgments rendered by the 
Court are binding solely for the parties concerned, the 
Court’s  jurisprudence  still  has  far-reaching  effects 
because  of  the  strength  of  messages  it  sends  to  the 
world.  By  exercising  its  functions  to  bring  about  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  it  plays  an  important 
role  in  preventing  the  outbreak  of  conflicts,  which  is 
an important contribution to the wider United Nations 
efforts being made in the service of peace.
Secondly, the Court plays a role in promoting the 
rule of law, not only in terms of relations between States, 
but also across the United Nations system. The vision set 
forth in the United Nations Charter cannot be realized 
without the rule of law, which is the basis on which we 
carry out our work, be it for peace, security, sustainable 
development or human rights. The judgments delivered 
by the International Court of Justice, together with its 
advisory  opinions,  are  essential  parts  of  promoting 
the international community’s commitment to the rule 
of law.
Thirdly, the International Court of Justice is more 
relevant  today  than  ever.  The  annual  report  before  us 
today  details  an  increase  during  the  reporting  period 
in the level of attention paid by the States to the work 
of the Court, which once again shows that the Court is 
contributing to the maintenance of international peace 
and  security  by  taking  up  and  settling  disputes  from 
numerous  States  across  the  world.  It  is  encouraging 
to  see  the  current  positive  trend  of  States  accepting 
the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction.  Furthermore, 
the  General  Assembly’s  annual  consideration  of  the 
Court’s  report  shows  that  Member  States  have  an 
ongoing  interest  in  the  work  being  carried  out  at  the 
Peace Palace in The Hague.
My delegation would like to express its appreciation 
for  the  role  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
has  been  playing  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international  level.  Through  its  judgments,  advisory 
opinions  and  other  fundamental  contributions  to  the 
system  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  the 
Court, as the main judicial organ of the United Nations, 
has been carrying out its responsibilities set forth in the 
Charter. The Court’s activities in adjudicating sensitive 
matters  require  political  support  from  Member  States 
and the allocation of a sufficient budget to allow it to 
completely fulfil its tasks. Today’s debate on the annual 
report is a good opportunity for the General Assembly 
to  reaffirm  its  support  for  the  role  and  the  work  of 
the Court.
16/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
The  many  cases  before  the  Court  reveal  the 
increasing  level  of  trust  in  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  and  its  ability  to  settle  disputes  with 
impartiality,  independence  and  in  a  manner  that  is 
accepted by the parties to a dispute. The Sudan would 
like to encourage the Court to take further measures to 
enhance its efficiency and ability in order to respond to 
the steady increase in its workload and responsibilities, 
particularly with respect to the swift consideration of 
cases before it.
My delegation also asks the General Assembly to 
call upon those States that have not yet recognized the 
compulsory jurisdiction of the Court to do so in order 
to promote the rule of law at the international level and 
enable the Court to carry out its work under the Charter. 
The  Sudan  also  calls  upon  the  Security  Council, 
which has not requested an advisory opinion from the 
International  Court  of  Justice  since  1970 —  almost  a 
half-century  ago  —  to  take  advantage  of  the  Court’s 
role  as  the  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
and source of advisory opinions on the interpretation of 
principles of international law related to the Council’s 
activities.  We  also  call  on  the  General  Assembly 
and  other  United  Nations  organs  and  specialized 
agencies  to  request  advisory  opinions  from  the  Court 
on  questions  of  international  law  matters  relevant  to 
their programmes.
We commend the Court’s unwavering impartiality 
since 1945. When we look at the history of the Court, 
we have seen that it has always been impartial, which 
reassures  parties  as  they  await  judgments  and  orders 
on the various cases on the Court’s docket, especially 
those currently under consideration.
In  conclusion,  the  Sudan  wishes  to  reiterate  its 
appreciation  for  the  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  expresses  its  support  for  the  Court  in  the 
exercise of its necessary functions.
Mr.  Tenya  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Peru,  as  a 
country committed to multilateralism and international 
law,  welcomes  the  report  introduced  in  the  General 
Assembly  today  by  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf, 
which  describes 
the  work  carried  out  between 
1 August 2017 and 31 July 2018 (A/73/4). Similarly, we 
congratulate Judge Yusuf on his election in February as 
President of the Court.
The  International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, plays a fundamental 
role  in  the  system  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  as  established  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  is  an  essential  contribution  to  the 
promotion of the rule of law at the international level. 
We  therefore  reaffirm  the  need  for  the  Organization 
and,  in  particular,  the  Security  Council,  of  which  we 
are  currently  a  part,  to  promote  the  use  of  means  of 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  set  out  in  Chapter  VI 
of  the  Charter.  Accordingly,  having  resorted  to  the 
contentious jurisdiction of the Court, we can testify to 
its effectiveness in resolving disputes between States. 
Indeed, we stress the peaceful settlement of the maritime 
delimitation  dispute  with  Chile,  and  we  highlight  the 
compliance of both States with the resolution provided 
by the Court, in a spirit of good-neighbourliness.
Peru  wishes  to  recall  that,  in  addition  to  its 
contentious function, the Court may also, in accordance 
with Article 96 of the Charter, issue advisory opinions 
at  the  request  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council or other authorized organs of the United Nations 
and  specialized  agencies.  These  are  the  two  areas  of 
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, which, 
through judgments, orders, and opinions, contribute to 
promoting and clarifying the scope of international law 
as a true option for peace.
In the light of the foregoing, Peru is pleased to note 
that the General Assembly has once again urged States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  recognizing  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  in  accordance  with  Article 
36, paragraph 2, of its Statute, as Peru has done along 
with  72  other  States.  My  delegation  also  wishes  to 
acknowledge  the  work  of  the  eminent  judges  of  the 
Court, in particular the President and the Vice-President.
We  also  wish  to  put  on  record  our  appreciation 
for the valuable task performed by the Registry of the 
Court,  especially  its  Registrar  and  Deputy  Registrar. 
In  this  context,  we  call  on  the  General  Assembly  to 
continue to carefully consider the needs of the Court, 
taking into account its current activity, which has been 
particularly intense.
The  sustained  high 
level  of  activity  of 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  an  expression  of  the 
prestige enjoyed by the principal judicial organ of the 
United  Nations.  This  prestige  is  also  reflected  in  the 
diversity  of the  geographical  distribution of  the  cases 
that have come before it, affirming the universal nature 
of its jurisdiction. In this vein, given what is established 
in Article 9 of the Statute of the Court, Peru wishes to 
18-33984
17/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
highlight the importance of Latin America’s presence 
among the group of magistrates in order to ensure that 
the main legal systems of the world are duly represented.
It  is  also  pertinent  that  we  continue  to  reflect  on 
ways  to  adapt  the  working  methods  of  the  Court  to 
respond to the procedural burden and the complexities 
of the cases before it. We reiterate our appreciation to 
the host State, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, for its 
constant commitment to and support for the work of the 
Court.  We  emphasize  the  importance  of  cooperation 
between  the  Court  and  the  other  principal  organs  of 
the  Organization  that  are  based  in  New  York.  In  this 
regard,  my  delegation  encourages  the  continuation  of 
the good relationship between the International Court 
of Justice and the Security Council.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  once  again  stressing 
the profound significance that we attribute to the work 
of the International Court of Justice in the defence of a 
rules-based international order. This is essential if the 
international community is to effectively confront the 
serious  global  challenges  and  threats  to  international 
peace and security.
Mr.  Gafoor 
delegation 
would  like  to  start  by  thanking  the  President  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  His  Excellency 
for  his  very 
Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf, 
comprehensive  briefing  on 
the 
International Court of Justice over the past year. We also 
congratulate Judge Yusuf on his election as President of 
the Court, as well as Judge Xue Hanqin on her election 
as Vice-President. We would also like to congratulate 
the newest members of the Court, Judge Nawaf Salam 
and Judge Yuji Iwasawa, on their respective elections.
(Singapore):  My 
the  activities  of 
that 
Singapore 
firmly  believes 
international 
relations must be governed by the rule of law in order to 
preserve international peace and stability and that the 
International Court of Justice plays a fundamental role 
in  the  rules-based  multilateral  system.  For  more  than 
70 years, the Court has helped to crystallize and clarify 
international law in areas as diverse as the law of the 
sea, territorial sovereignty, the use of force and treaty 
interpretation,  to  name  but  a  few  examples.  In  our 
view, the role of the Court is more important today than 
ever before. As mentioned by our Minister for Foreign 
Affairs during the General Assembly high-level debate, 
we have in recent years witnessed a crisis of confidence 
in  the  concept  of  multilateralism  and  its  institutions 
(see A/73/PV.14). Whether in trade, security or dispute 
resolution,  questions  have  arisen  about  whether  the 
multilateral system can continue to deliver the effective 
solutions we need to overcome global challenges.
Against that backdrop, the compliance of all States 
with the agreed rules is especially important to small 
States,  such  as  Singapore.  That  is  why  Singapore 
has  been  a  staunch  defender  of  the  United  Nations, 
international  law  and  the  rules-based  multilateral 
system. We are very heartened by the statement in the 
report  of  the  Court  that  everything  the  Court  does  is 
aimed  at  promoting  and  reinforcing  the  rule  of  law, 
which  is  the  fundamental  and  primary  role  of  the 
International Court of Justice. We encourage the Court 
to  adhere  unstintingly  to  this  goal,  and  fundamental 
to  that  is  the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes,  which  is  enshrined  in  Articles  2  and  33  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  International 
Court of Justice performs a critical role in this context 
by providing an objective and authoritative forum for 
States to resolve their disputes in accordance with the 
established rules and principles of international law.
Turning to the work of the Court during the period 
under  review,  Singapore  was  involved  in  two  cases 
before the Court, both of which were filed in 2017. The 
first  concerned  Malaysia’s  application  for  a  revision 
of  the  Court’s  judgment  of  23  May  2008  in  the  case 
concerning Sovereignty over Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu 
Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South  Ledge,  pursuant  to 
Article 61 of the Statute of the International Court of 
Justice. The second case concerned Malaysia’s request 
for  an  interpretation  of  the  same  judgment,  pursuant 
to Article 60 of the Court’s Statute. On 29 May 2018, 
Singapore  informed  the  Court  that  it  agreed  with 
Malaysia’s  requests  for  the  discontinuance  of  both 
cases.  The  Court  subsequently  placed  on  record  the 
discontinuance of both cases, which have been removed 
from  the  Court’s  list  of  cases.  What  is  noteworthy  is 
that  both  parties  —  Singapore  and  Malaysia  —  had 
gone  through  the  legal  process  and  amicably  put  the 
matter to rest. Singapore would also like to express its 
appreciation to the Registry of the Court for facilitating 
the efficient and expeditious administration of both of 
the cases I have just referred to.
Finally,  on  the  issue  of  online  resources  and 
services, we welcome the Court’s continued efforts to 
leverage technology and social media in order to raise 
awareness of and bring transparency to its work. The 
regular updates provided on its new website, as well as 
the live and on-demand coverage of its public sittings, 
18/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
help to make the Court’s proceedings more accessible, 
especially to the many small States that do not have a 
presence in The Hague.
In  closing,  Singapore  reaffirms  its  very  strong 
support  for  the  work  of  the  Court.  We  are  aware  that 
the Court’s caseload continues to be very demanding, 
as we have just heard in the detailed briefing provided 
by  the  President  of  the  Court.  But  we  are  confident 
that  under  the  able  leadership  of  President  Yusuf  and 
Vice-President Xue Hanqin, the Court will continue to 
discharge its duties efficiently and with great distinction.
Ms.  Orosan  (Romania):  At  the  outset  of  my 
brief statement, let me convey the appreciation of the 
Romanian  delegation  for  the  valuable  and  detailed 
information  included  in  this  year’s  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice, in particular in respect 
of the judicial activity undertaken by the Court during 
the period concerned (A/73/4). The report illustrates a 
particularly  high  level  of  intensity  in  the  work  of  the 
principal  United  Nations  judicial  body.  Several  cases 
were  finalized,  providing 
important  clarifications 
in  respect  of  difficult  questions  of  international  law 
for  the  benefit  of  legal  practitioners  everywhere.  The 
current  docket  of  the  Court  continues  to  register  a 
substantial  number  of  cases  involving  countries  from 
various regions of the world and concerning issues of 
great interest, not only to the parties involved, but also 
to the entire international community.
We  are  fully  aware  that  the  increasing  workload 
places additional burdens on the Court and makes even 
more uncompromising the need to ensure that the Court 
has sufficient resources to fulfil its tasks. Nevertheless, 
the increased willingness of States to turn to the Court is 
a trend to be welcomed. We cannot but remark that many 
of the cases submitted to the Court concern issues that 
are both complex and politically sensitive, which stands 
as proof of the trust that States continue to place in the 
Court as the principal means for peacefully resolving 
international  disputes  in  the  event  that  attempts  to 
reach settlements through dialogue and negotiations do 
not bring the disputes to satisfactory resolution.
The  Court  cannot  act  proprio  motu  or  in  the 
absence of the consent of all State parties to a dispute 
brought  before  it.  It  is  therefore  States  that,  through 
their consent, empower the Court to act and give it the 
opportunity to contribute to world peace through dispute 
resolution  based  on  the  application  of  law.  It  is  also 
through States’ conduct in implementing the decisions 
of the Court that they abide by the logic of the United 
Nations Charter and act within the scope of the United 
Nations itself. This gives meaning to the system — a 
solid international legal order — that States have put in 
place to safeguard peace and security worldwide.
Romania can offer itself as an example of how its 
approach  vis-à-vis  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
has  changed  over  time.  From  a  State  that  recognized 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court’s predecessor, 
the Permanent Court of International Justice, Romania 
became a State strongly opposed to the jurisdiction of 
the International Court of Justice during communism, 
only to revert to its initial position more than 50 years 
later when it deposited a declaration of acceptance of 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court 
of Justice, in 2015.
to  accept 
Romania  encourages  States 
the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  to  adjudicate  international  law  disputes  and 
notes that there are various means through which such 
acceptance  can  occur  —  either  on  an  ad  hoc  basis, 
on  a  specific  treaty  basis  or  on  a  permanent  basis. 
Irrespective  of  the  means,  we  should  empower  the 
Court to act in an irreversible manner.
At  the  ceremony  to  commemorate  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the International Court of Justice, former 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon noted that if the path 
of  peace  is  chosen  and  States  entrust  the  judges  to 
resolve differences between them, stability is fostered 
and  the  entire  international  community  benefits.  I 
would like to echo those words and underline that it is 
in everyone’s best interest that States choose to resolve 
their disputes by taking recourse in the jurisdiction of 
the International Court of Justice when other means of 
peacefully  settling  a  dispute  have  been  unsuccessful. 
The Court is not there just to decorate our living space, 
but to adjust that space to accommodate and preserve 
harmony through the application of international law.
In a world marked by serious challenges to peace 
and  security,  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  a 
fundamental  pillar  of  peace  and  good-neighbourly 
relations  around  the  world,  plays  a  central  part  in 
promoting  the  international  legal  order.  Romania 
reaffirms its support for the main judicial body of the 
United Nations and underscores its trust in the Court’s 
impartiality, effectiveness and professionalism.
Mr. Nfati (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I would like to thank His Excellency Judge Abdulqawi 
18-33984
19/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
Ahmed Yusuf, President of the International Court of 
Justice, for his valuable briefing. I congratulate him on 
his election as President of the Court and wish him and 
the other members of the Court every success.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela and the Gambia on behalf of the Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the  Group  of  African 
States, respectively.
The international community has always deemed it 
necessary to have a permanent international judiciary 
for  the  settlement  of  international  disputes.  That 
aspiration was fulfilled when, after the formation of the 
United Nations, the International Court of Justice was 
established as one of the new Organization’s principal 
organs.  The  Court  plays  a  dual  role:  first,  in  settling 
disputes  that  are  brought  before  it,  and,  secondly,  in 
issuing advisory opinions. But the question that we ask 
ourselves  today  is  whether  the  International  Court  of 
Justice is fulfilling the role entrusted to it.
We find that 80 per cent of the cases brought before 
the  Court  pertain  to  disputes  between  States,  while 
20  per  cent  involve  requests  for  advisory  opinions. 
The existence of an international court, even if it does 
not  have  full  and  final  authority,  has  therefore  led  to 
situations where, thanks to the Court’s work, the resort 
to  force  or  war  has  been  averted.  However,  certain 
States’  interference  with  the  Statute  of  the  Court, 
together  with  their  non-recognition  of  its  compulsory 
jurisdiction,  has  in  many  cases  weakened  the  role 
of  the  Court  and  impeded  the  implementation  of  its 
judgments, despite the fact that the Court has refused 
to show favouritism or to give favourable treatment to 
some at the expense of others, which is not always the 
case in certain national judicial bodies.
In December 2003, the General Assembly requested 
an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  on  the  legitimacy  of  the  Israeli  occupying 
authorities’  construction  of  a  separation  wall  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories.  On  9  July  2004,  the 
Court issued an opinion on the illegitimacy of the wall, 
finding  it  to  be  a  violation  of  international  law.  The 
Court demanded that construction of the wall be halted 
and  that  the  Palestinians  affected  be  compensated. 
The Court called upon the General Assembly and the 
Security Council to decide what additional steps were 
necessary  to  end  the  situation  of  illegality  stemming 
from the construction of the wall.
The Court’s request to the Security Council to take 
the necessary measures was made in accordance with 
the Charter of the United Nations, which states that
“[e]ach Member of the United Nations undertakes 
to  comply  with  the  decision  of  the  International 
Court of Justice in any case to which it is a party”.
The same Article also states that
“[i]f  any  party  to  a  case  fails  to  perform  the 
obligations  incumbent  upon  it  under  a  judgment 
rendered  by  the  Court,  the  other  party  may  have 
recourse to the Security Council, which may, if it 
deems necessary, make recommendations or decide 
upon  measures  to  be  taken  to  give  effect  to  the 
judgment” .
Nevertheless,  the  Security  Council  has  not  to 
date  taken  any  measures  that  might  have  honestly 
and  objectively  contributed  to  achieving  justice  and 
fairness  in  this  case.  The  international  community 
must  respect  the  will  of  the  Court  and  implement  its 
judgments  in  accordance  with  its  legal  duties  and 
obligations stipulated by international law. My country 
has been a litigant in the International Court of Justice 
on many occasions, and the State of Libya has abided 
by all judgments of the Court even when they did not 
necessarily serve our interests, because Libya respects 
international  law  and  the  rulings  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, and because we commend the role of 
international law in serving justice.
In conclusion, we call for coming together to give 
the decisions and judgments of the International Court 
of  Justice  the  support  they  need  as  well  as  to  adopt 
practical  mechanisms  that  ensure  the  implementation 
of those decisions and judgments.
Mr.  Rietjens  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  Judge 
Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf, President of the International 
Court of Justice, for introducing the annual report of the 
Court (A/73/4). On behalf of the Kingdom of Belgium, 
I  would  like  to  commend  the  work  of  all  the  judges, 
in  particular  President  Yusuf  and  Vice-President  Xue 
Hanqin. As the Belgian representative, I would also like 
to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Registrar, 
our  compatriot  Mr.  Philippe  Couvreur,  who,  together 
with his efficient team, has carried out his duties in an 
exemplary  and  highly  appreciated  manner  for  many 
years. Finally, I would like to congratulate Judge Nawaf 
20/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
Salam and Judge Yuji Iwasawa on their recent elections 
to the Court.
Belgium  has  always  attached  great  importance 
to  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  which  plays  a 
crucial role in the peaceful settlement of disputes and 
thereby  contributes  to  the  prevention  of  conflicts  and 
the achievement of the objectives of the United Nations.
In this regard, I would like to point out that 2018 
marks the sixtieth anniversary of Belgium’s acceptance 
of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. On this occasion, 
we would like to encourage all States that have not yet 
done  so  to  accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court. At the same time, we call on all States concerned 
to continue to accept this jurisdiction in the context of 
specific bilateral or multilateral treaties to which they 
are  a  party  and  which  have  designated  the  Court  as 
the main instrument for settling disputes arising from 
these treaties.
Upon  reading  the  report  presented  by  President 
Yusuf  this  morning,  Belgium  could  not  but  note  that 
the Court’s workload is constantly increasing. Indeed, 
at the moment, there are no less than 17 cases pending. 
This  intensive  activity  reflects  the  trust  that  States 
have in the Court and their interest in finding a legal 
and peaceful solution to their disputes. The geographic 
diversity of the States concerned in cases submitted to 
the  Court  and  the  variety  of  the  areas  in  which  it  is 
called upon to render judgment attest to the fundamental 
role  played  by  the  Court  and  the  universal  nature  of 
its  jurisdiction.  Through  both  its  judgments  and  its 
advisory opinions, which have significantly increased 
over the years, the Court has contributed substantially 
to  the  application,  interpretation  and  accuracy  of 
international  law.  Given  the  considerable  scope  of  its 
jurisprudence and its contribution to determining and 
developing  international  law,  we  encourage  States 
and international organizations to continue to include 
in  future  multilateral  treaties  provisions  recognizing 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  disputes  related  to  the 
application or interpretation of these treaties.
The  representation  of  different  legal  systems, 
languages  and  cultures  in  the  Court  undoubtedly 
contributes  to  the  efficiency  and  the  quality  of  its 
decisions.  However,  we  are  firmly  convinced  that  the 
Court  can  be  truly  effective  only  if  its  judgments, 
opinions and orders are respected.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
The world today faces enormous challenges that test the 
rule of law and erode multilateralism, such as climate 
change,  armed  conflicts,  terrorism  and  human  rights 
violations.  In  the  face  of  this  reality,  the  strength  of 
global  institutions  and  international  law  is  crucial.  It 
is from that perspective that Mexico is participating in 
today’s debate.
The  work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
cannot be seen as just another item on the agenda of the 
General Assembly. It must be placed at the centre of our 
attention  so  that  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, 
through the work of the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations, is duly valued.
The report introduced by President Yusuf (A/73/4) 
demonstrates the strength of the Court and underscores 
its  relevance  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  To  that  end,  it  is  very  important 
to  recall  that,  in  the  past  decade  alone,  more  than  20 
new  contentious  cases  have  been  brought  before  the 
Court from States in all regions of the world and that its 
advisory function has also been resorted to. Similarly, 
the  great  variety  of  issues  that  are  being  addressed, 
which range from territorial disputes, whether on land 
or  at  sea,  to  the  immunities  of  State  officials  and  the 
diversity  of  the  legal  sources  invoked  and  analysed, 
demonstrate why the Court is indeed the highest judicial 
authority in the world.
However, my delegation is concerned that currently 
only 73 States Members of the United Nations, that is, 
less than half of the Organization’s membership, have 
accepted the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction and that 
some  are  even  seeking  mechanisms  to  avoid  being 
subject  to  its  jurisdiction.  Faced  with  this  scenario, 
Mexico reiterates that lack of accountability will always 
be a factor that weakens the rule of law. Moreover, it 
creates  the  risk  that  the  emergence  of  new  disputes 
could lead to conflicts with an international dimension.
We also recognize that while adjudication alone is 
not enough to restore the rule of law when it has been 
violated, it is a precondition for the implementation of 
measures to restore order and legality. In the end, the 
Court’s  effectiveness  depends  on  compliance  with  its 
judgments. Cases of non-compliance, while still a small 
minority, considerably weaken its function.
That  is  a  particularly  sensitive  issue  for  my 
country.  For  the  first  time  in  its  history,  in  2003, 
Mexico appealed to the International Court of Justice 
18-33984
21/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
in the so-called Avena case to resolve in good faith a 
dispute  arising  from  the  violation  of  article  36  of  the 
Vienna Convention on Consular Relations with regard 
to  51  cases  of  Mexican  nationals  sentenced  to  death 
in  various  United  States  courts.  With  a  favourable 
judgment  issued  in  2004,  now,  almost  15  years  later, 
the judgment has yet to be complied with. Furthermore, 
over  the  course  of  these  years,  six  Mexicans,  all  of 
whom  were  subject  to  protection  by  the  judgment 
of  the  Court,  have  been  executed.  We  believe  that 
each  of  these  executions  is  an  additional  violation  of 
international  law.  We  respectfully  call  for  that  not  to 
be  the  case  for  Mr.  Roberto  Ramos  Moreno,  who  is 
also  covered  by  the  judgment  in  the  case  concerning 
Avena and Other Mexican Nationals (Mexico v. United 
States  of  America),  and  whose  execution  is  scheduled 
for 14 November.
I  reiterate  the  message  with  which  I  began  my 
statement  —  the  current  threats  to  the  rule  of  law 
compel  us  to  give  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
the place that the Charter of the United Nations itself 
accords  it  on  a  topic  as  crucial  as  the  resolution  of 
disputes, especially when they could lead to conflicts 
that threaten or disrupt international peace and security.
Ultimately,  it  is  essential  to  remember  that  the 
best  option  will  always  be  to  turn  to  a  court  of  law 
to  adjudicate  a  dispute,  that  the  court’s  judgments 
will  continue  to  set  the  tone  for  a  global  order  based 
on  law  and  justice  and  that  non-compliance  with  the 
law  can  never  legitimize  States’  failure  to  meet  their 
international obligations.
Ms. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Cuba  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
The  Republic  of  Cuba  welcomes  the  introduction 
of  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
the period 1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018 (A/73/4). We 
reiterate our commitment to the strict enforcement of 
international law.
My  delegation  recognizes  the  work  of  the  Court 
since its inception. Its decisions and advisory opinions 
have  been  particularly  significant,  not  only  in  the 
cases  submitted  for  its  consideration,  but  also  for  the 
development  of  public  international  law,  since  the 
Court is an important source thereof. The Republic of 
Cuba welcomes the peaceful settlement of disputes in 
accordance with Article 33, paragraph 1, of the Charter 
of the United Nations and has declared acceptance with 
prior  consent  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Court of Justice.
Cuba  deplores  the  fact  that  some  of  the  Court’s 
judgments have not been enforced, in flagrant violation 
of  Article  94  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
pursuant  to  which  each  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations must commit to complying with the decisions 
of the International Court of Justice in all disputes to 
which  it  is  a  party.  In  this  regard,  my  country  notes 
with concern that the effectiveness and enforceability 
of  the  Court’s  judgment  may  be  subject  to  criticism, 
not  without  reason,  when  some  countries  still  do  not 
recognize  judgments  unfavourable  to  them.  Sadly, 
these  countries’  refusal  to  comply  with  the  Court’s 
decisions and their blocking of the mechanisms of the 
United  Nations  to  enforce  such  decisions  by  availing 
themselves of their veto rights in the Security Council 
shows  the  flaws  in  the  Court’s  enforcement  tools. 
This  situation  makes  clear  the  need  to  reform  the 
United  Nations  system  in  order  to  provide  additional 
guarantees to developing countries to level the playing 
field with powerful countries. The same is true for the 
International Court of Justice.
importance 
to 
Cuba  attaches  particular 
the 
advisory opinions of the International Court of Justice, 
including its advisory opinion of 9 June 2004, entitled 
Legal  consequences  of  the  construction  of  a  wall  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  (see  A/ES-10/273), 
which is fully applicable in the current circumstances. 
That is why, as has been stated in this Hall, Cuba urges 
that the Court’s advisory opinion be fully implemented 
and calls on all States to respect and comply with the 
Court’s provisions in that important matter.
The Republic of Cuba wishes to thank the Court for 
the publications it has made available to Governments 
parties and for its online resources, which are valuable 
materials  for  the  dissemination  and  study  of  public 
international law, especially for developing countries, 
some of which are often deprived of information related 
to developments in international law. In the case of Cuba, 
that is due to an absurd and obsolete policy of blockade 
that is imposed by the United States and overwhelmingly 
rejected by the international community.
We once again reiterate that the Republic of Cuba 
has been a peaceful country that respects international 
law and has always faithfully honoured its international 
obligations under the treaties to which it is party. We 
22/24 
18-33984
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.24
take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  commitment 
to peace.
Mr.  Xu  Hong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  At  the 
outset, allow me, on behalf of the Chinese delegation, 
to  congratulate  President  Yusuf  and  Vice-President 
Xue  Hanqin  on  their  election  to  preside  over  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  We  thank  President 
Yusuf for his report on the work of the Court (A/73/4), 
and we thank all the Court’s judges and staff for their 
hard work over the past year.
influential 
international 
Established by the Charter of the United Nations, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations. It is also the most 
authoritative  and 
judicial 
institution in the world today. Since its inception more 
than  70  years  ago,  the  Court  has  performed  judicial 
functions  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter and the Court’s Statute, delivering more than 
120 judgments and nearly 30 advisory opinions. These 
judicial  activities  have  played  an  important  role  in 
the  interpretation,  application  and  development  of 
the rules of international law, the peaceful settlement 
of  international  disputes,  and  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
The workload of the Court has been increasing in 
recent years. In the past year in particular, the number 
of contentious cases and requests for advisory opinions 
from the Court has gone up, which attests to the Court’s 
growing role in the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes and the international community’s greater trust 
in and expectations of the Court. The contentious cases 
and the requests for opinion currently before the Court 
pertain  to  important  issues  in  international  law,  such 
as  territorial  sovereignty,  decolonization,  immunities, 
human  rights  protection,  and  unilateral  sanctions, 
inter alia, many of which involve the principle of State 
consent,  invoked  by  international  judicial  authorities 
when  settling  disputes  between  States.  The  way  the 
Court handles these cases will have a direct bearing on 
the interests of the States concerned or the important 
functions of the United Nations agencies and may have 
far-reaching  implications  for  the  development  of  the 
relevant rules of international law. Therefore, the Court 
must act in strict accordance with the law and preserve 
its authority and reputation through its actions.
The  Court  should  be  equipped  with  sufficient 
resources  in  order  to  ensure  that  it  can  perform  its 
judicial  functions  effectively.  In  particular,  given 
its  increasingly  heavy  workload,  it  is  all  the  more 
necessary for the Court to have resources commensurate 
with  its  actual  needs.  As  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council,  China  will  continue  to  support  the 
Court  in  obtaining  the  necessary  assurances  and 
support within the framework of the United Nations.
to 
resolving 
international 
China  is  a  staunch  defender  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes  as  an  important 
principle  of  international  law.  It  has  always  been 
committed 
disputes 
through  negotiation  and  consultation,  and  resolutely 
rejects  frequent  recourse  to  international  actions  that 
aggravate differences and extend disputes. At present, 
international  relations  are  being  severely  challenged 
by  unilateralism.  China  will  work 
steadfastly 
alongside  the  international  community  to  safeguard 
the international system with the United Nations at its 
core and defend international law based on the United 
Nations  Charter.  As  a  matter  of  course,  this  includes 
supporting the Court in the carrying out of its judicial 
functions, in accordance with law. We sincerely hope 
that the International Court of Justice will make greater 
contributions to upholding the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and promoting the 
rule of law at the international level.
Mr. Hitti (Lebanon) (spoke in French): At the outset, 
allow  me  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  Mr.  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  for 
introducing  the  report  on  the  activities  of  the  Court 
(A/73/4). I would also like to take this opportunity to 
congratulate him on his assumption of the presidency 
of the Court this year, as well as Ms. Xue Hanqin on her 
assumption of the vice-presidency.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  remains  an 
essential  component  of  an  international  order  based 
on multilateralism and a vital link in the promotion of 
friendly  relations  among  States.  It  should  be  recalled 
here that, under Article 33 of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  judicial  settlement  is  one  of  the  peaceful 
means  available  to  States  to  resolve  their  disputes. 
The  Court  also  plays  a  major  role  in  safeguarding 
and  developing  international  law,  through  both  its 
contentious  proceedings  and  its  advisory  opinions. 
The Court gives life to legal rules by proving that they 
cannot be reduced to abstract concepts.
One  of  the  reasons  for  the  safeguarding  and 
the  Court’s 
development  of 
bilingualism.  English  and  French,  the  Court’s  two 
international 
law 
is 
18-33984
23/24
A/73/PV.24 
25/10/2018
official languages, reflect a legal tradition, culture and 
system. Their balanced use therefore has an impact on 
the  Court’s  jurisprudence.  Professor  Alain  Pellet  also 
said that bilingualism is “a guarantee of better justice 
that  is  more  authentically  international  and  therefore 
probably more acceptable to all specific litigants such 
as sovereign States”.
The  geographical  diversity  of  the  States  using 
the  Court  illustrates  its  pre-eminence  and  further 
reinforces  its  universal  character.  In  addition,  the 
diverse  range  of  areas  covered  by  the  Court’s  work, 
from territorial and maritime disputes to human rights, 
to  the  interpretation  and  application  of  international 
conventions  and  treaties,  contributes  to  enriching 
the  International  Court  of  Justice’s  jurisprudence 
and  clarifying  aspects  of  international  law.  A  recent 
example  is  the  Court’s  unprecedented  recognition,  in 
its  ruling  on  the  case  concerning  Certain  Activities 
carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa 
Rica v. Nicaragua), of 2 February 2018, of the right to 
compensation for environmental damage.
Moreover, my delegation is pleased to note that the 
Court’s ever-increasing workload has not prevented it 
from  issuing  rulings  within  a  reasonable  time  frame. 
Indeed,  it  is  mentioned  in  the  report  that  the  period 
between  the  closure  of  the  oral  proceedings  and  the 
reading  of  a  judgment  or  an  advisory  opinion  by  the 
Court  does  not  exceed  six  months  on  average.  My 
delegation expresses its gratitude to the judges, as well 
as to the Registrar and all members of the Court, for the 
efficiency of their work.
remains 
firmly  committed 
As  one  of  the  founding  countries  of  the  United 
Nations,  Lebanon 
to 
international  justice  and  the  promotion  of  the  rule 
of  law;  its  support  for  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the  United  Nations  is  a  clear  and  uncompromising 
manifestation of that commitment.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
24/24 
18-33984
