United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
26th plenary meeting
Friday, 26 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Bahr Aluloom 
(Iraq), Vice-President, took the Chair.
for  Outer  Space  Affairs  to  respond  to  new  realities, 
challenges and opportunities in the area of space.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 30
Space as a driver of sustainable development
Draft resolution (A/73/L.6)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Mexico to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.6.
Ms. Ramírez de Arellano y Haro (Mexico) (spoke 
in Spanish): It is an honour for me to address the General 
Assembly on behalf of my country, Mexico, which this 
year has the honour of chairing the Committee on the 
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS).
This  year,  as  part  of  the  Committee’s  sixty-first 
session,  we  celebrated  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
first  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration 
and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space,  known  as 
UNISPACE+50.  Its  high-level  segment,  open  to  all 
Member  States,  was  attended  by  93  States,  a  number 
of  United  Nations  entities  and  specialized  agencies 
and  a  wide  range  of  international  intergovernmental 
and non-governmental organizations in the space field. 
As  evidenced  by  its  successful  anniversary  in  June, 
UNISPACE+50  promoted  discussions  on  developing 
new directions for the global governance of outer-space 
activities and strengthening the capacities of all States, 
the  Committee  itself  and  the  United  Nations  Office 
Space-based  tools  are  fundamental  to  meeting 
the  targets  and  indicators  of  the  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  The  space  community  must 
work  collectively  towards  them  for  the  benefit  of  all, 
particularly  developing  countries.  I  should  not  fail  to 
mention that in addition to those Goals, we also have 
before  us  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
to mention various landmarks related to space activities 
and their impact on all of us who inhabit the Earth and 
the solar system.
The  States 
the  high-level 
segment adopted the draft resolution, entitled “Fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  first  United  Nations  Conference 
on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer 
Space:  space  as  a  driver  of  sustainable  development” 
(A/73/L.6),  and  recommended  it  for  consideration  by 
the  Assembly,  under  item  30  of  its  agenda.  The  work 
ahead is to establish a Space2030 agenda, which will be 
crucial to the achievement of the goals outlined in the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
in 
that 
took  part 
Through  the  pillars  of  space  economics,  space 
society,  space  accessibility  and  space  diplomacy,  we 
embark today on a COPUOS process as a single platform 
to  discuss  issues  related  to  all  space  activities  and  to 
integrate  a  global  agenda  for  greater  space  awareness 
with a view to meeting the challenges facing humankind 
and society’s growth. I thank those countries that have 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-34313 (E)
*1834313*

A/73/PV.26 
26/10/2018
joined  in  sponsoring  the  draft  resolution,  and  the 
General Assembly for its support.
Mr. Carrillo Gómez (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  have  the  great  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on 
behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay, 
which  welcomes  the  progress  made  in  presenting  a 
comprehensive,  inclusive  and  strategically  oriented 
vision  on  strengthening  international  cooperation  in 
the  exploration  and  use  of  outer  space  for  peaceful 
purposes, as well as Mexico’s initiative in submitting 
draft resolution A/73/L.6, on which we will vote today.
Paraguay  subscribes  to  the  principle  of  exploring 
and  using  outer  space  for  peaceful  purposes  for  the 
benefit  of  all  humankind,  especially  for  attaining 
sustainable development, while leaving no one behind, 
and so as to achieve disaster risk reduction and address 
the  consequences  of  climate  change.  We  refrain  from 
the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  in  our  international 
relations, strive to prevent an arms race in outer space 
and  stress  the  need  to  ensure  international  liability 
for damage caused by space activities and to continue 
working  on  the  design  of  an  appropriate  legal  regime 
in that regard. In that belief, Paraguay has applied for 
membership in the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of 
Outer Space (COPUOS).
For space to be a driver and a decisive element in 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
as discussed at the 2018 session of COPUOS and in its 
Scientific and Technical and Legal Subcommittees, it is 
essential to strengthen coordination and support at all 
international levels, including through improved access 
to  space  data,  applications  and  infrastructure.  We 
urge all Member State delegations to work together to 
seize and strengthen the opportunities of international 
cooperation offered by the exploration of outer space, 
as  well  as  the  development  and  application  of  space 
science and technology.
All countries, regardless of their level of economic 
or  scientific  development,  should  participate 
in, 
contribute to and benefit from the exploration and use 
of outer space for peaceful purposes. In this regard, we 
stress the importance of taking special account of the 
needs of developing countries, particularly in building 
their  capabilities  to  explore  and  use  outer  space  for 
peaceful purposes without discrimination, on an equal 
footing  and  in  accordance  with  international  law.  We 
emphasize  the  importance  of  fostering  international 
cooperation to that end.
In that spirit, the Government of Paraguay, which 
recently  ratified  the  Treaty  on  Principles  Governing 
the  Activities  of  States  in  the  Exploration  and  Use  of 
Outer  Space,  including  the  Moon  and  Other  Celestial 
Bodies,  thereby  contributing  to  its  universalization, 
has also created a space agency, made up of public and 
private  institutions,  with  the  objective  of  promoting 
and  implementing  policies  for  developing  national 
space  activities  and  taking  advantage  of  outer  space 
through its peaceful use. The space agency, which has 
been  operating  since  2017,  is  currently  developing  its 
space  policy  and  national  space-activities  programme 
and has promoted initiatives to cooperate with similar 
institutions in other States, most recently Mexico and 
Argentina.
Finally,  in  our  firm  belief  in  the  importance  of 
the work of the United Nations Office for Outer Space 
Affairs  in  the  creation  of  national  capacities  and  its 
relevance as a platform for cooperation among States, 
the  delegation  of  Paraguay  supports  providing  it  with 
appropriate and sufficient resources for assisting States 
with  capacity-building  activities  in  space  science 
and  technology  and  their  applications  and  in  the 
development of space legislation and policy.
today  of  draft 
Ms.  AlZaabi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  want  to  welcome  the 
Assembly’s  adoption 
resolution 
A/73/L.6,  entitled  “Fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  first 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and 
Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space:  Space  as  a  driver  of 
sustainable development”. I would also like to express 
our  appreciation  for  the  organization  of  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space 
(UNISPACE+50), which was an important opportunity 
to  review  more  than  50  years  of  exploring  and  using 
outer  space,  in  addition  to  defining  the  future  role  of 
the  Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space 
(COPUOS)  in  terms  of  the  global  governance  of 
outer space.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  played  an  active  role 
in  making  the  UNISPACE+50  Conference  successful, 
based  on  our  belief  in  the  importance  of  achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  recognize 
that  outer  space  has  an  important  role  to  play.  That 
is  why  in  2016  and  2017  we  hosted  two  of  the  three 
preparatory forums for UNISPACE+50, held under the 
topic “Outer space as a driver for economic and social 
sustainable development”. That led to the adoption of 
2/8 
18-34313
26/10/2018 
A/73/PV.26
the Dubai Declaration, which includes many important 
recommendations  to  be  adopted  within  the  United 
Nations Space2030 agenda. In addition to participating 
in the discussion sessions of the Conference, the United 
Arab Emirates helped to organize the UNISPACE+50 
exhibition,  as  well  as  an  event  on  the  United  Arab 
Emirates and UNISPACE+50.
The United Arab Emirates is working to establish 
a  robust  and  sustainable  outer-space  sector 
that 
can  contribute  to  regional  and  international  efforts 
promoting  space  exploration.  That  will  help  develop 
advanced technologies that could have a positive impact 
on people’s lives and contribute to the achievement of 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Outer space is a major area of investment for our 
State with a view to achieving a promising future for 
generations  to  come.  We  have  developed  plans  and 
policies for outer space that extend as far as 100 years 
from now. The most prominent of them is our 2117 Mars 
programme,  which  includes  building  the  first  human 
city on Mars by 2117.
Given  the  important  role  that  young  people  play 
in  shaping  and  preparing  for  the  future,  with  its 
opportunities and challenges in the outer-space sector, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  has  developed  a  strategy 
training  young  nationals  in  this  area  with  a  view  to 
becoming active and essential partners in leading efforts 
at the local, regional and international levels to explore 
space and use it in peaceful ways. In that context, my 
country has created a council for an outer-space agency 
for young people of the United Arab Emirates that aims 
to encourage the efforts of distinguished young people 
from  the  agency  and  provides  them  with  a  platform 
where  they  can  exchange  ideas  and  aspirations  on 
outer space, enabling them to come up with innovative 
concepts  and  get  help  in  implementing  them.  As  part 
of our astronaut programme, two young Emiratis were 
recently chosen to be the first Arabs to participate in 
the activities of the international space station with a 
view to carrying out space exploration projects.
In order to implement our plans for training a new 
Emirati  generation  capable  of  carrying  out  ambitious 
space  projects  over  the  next  decade,  a  large  group  of 
elite  young  Emirati  engineers,  both  men  and  women, 
have  designed  and  executed  the  KhalifaSat  project, 
the  first  satellite  made  in  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
for  monitoring  purposes.  Alia  Al-Mansouri,  a  female 
Emirati student, conducted a scientific space experiment 
that won first place in a contest in Abu Dhabi on the 
theme “Genes in space”, and the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration will be launching a Falcon 9 
rocket carrying Al-Mansouri’s experiment, which will 
undoubtedly  motivate  her  fellow  students  to  develop 
more such experiments.
The  year  2020  will  be  a  unique  one  for  young 
Emiratis  engaged  in  the  space  sector,  as  my  country 
will be hosting the International Conference on Space 
Navigation in Dubai. We will be the first Islamic-Arab 
State  to  host  that  conference,  which  was  first  held  in 
1950. That year we will also launch the first Islamic-Arab 
probe to Mars, making us one of nine States seeking to 
explore that planet. The Hope probe will help to acquire 
scientific knowledge, create space applications and find 
highly  competent  human  resources  in  the  Emirates. 
By  2020,  more  than  150  Emirati  engineers,  men  and 
women, will be contributing to the project.
In  conclusion,  as  a  representative  of  the  young 
people  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  I  want  to  assure 
the Assembly that we will continue to work diligently 
to  create  a  better  and  more  promising  future  for 
succeeding  generations,  and  in  every  sector,  not  just 
outer space. In that regard, we call on the international 
community to step up its efforts to empower and invest 
in young people. Young people have great potential and 
unlimited capabilities that can build prosperous, stable 
societies if used constructively.
Ms.  Mozolina 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  supports  the 
Assembly’s adoption today of draft resolution A/73/L.6, 
entitled  “Fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  first  United 
Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful 
Uses  of  Outer  Space:  space  as  a  driver  of  sustainable 
development”.
for 
The  preparatory  process 
the  conference 
celebrating  50  years  since  the  first  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses 
of  Outer  Space  (UNISPACE+50)  was  enriching  and 
important both for understanding the areas of activity 
of  the  United  Nations  Committee  on  the  Peaceful 
Uses  of  Outer  Space  on  which  States  have  achieved 
a  mutual  understanding  and  those  on  which  there  are 
differences  of  position.  In  particular,  some  States 
opposed strengthening the draft resolution’s provisions 
on developing international regulations for outer-space 
activities  based  on  their  belief  in  the  importance  of 
developing  exclusively  national  regulatory  systems. 
18-34313
3/8
A/73/PV.26 
26/10/2018
While  we  believe  that  national  regulation  should 
certainly be developed, it must be done so that it does 
not conflict with international norms and rules. Besides 
that, significant differences of opinion were expressed 
about the introduction into the political lexicon a few 
years  ago  of  the  term  “global  governance  of  outer-
space activities”. We think it would be a good idea for 
the  term  to  be  clarified  within  the  framework  of  the 
Committee. We hope that States’ efforts to implement 
the draft resolution will contribute to the development 
of  international  cooperation  on  the  exploration  of 
outer  space  and  ultimately  to  the  achievement  of 
the  sustainable  development  agenda.  However,  it  is 
important to strive to consistently address the issue of 
the safety of outer-space activities and security in space 
in general.
Among other things, working to achieve the goals 
set by UNISPACE+50 means convening a large number 
of so-called high-level forums organized by the United 
Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs in cooperation 
with  host  countries.  We  can  only  welcome 
the 
development of that type of dialogue. Together with the 
United Nations, in Moscow in September we ourselves 
successfully held the first United Nations Conference 
on  Space  Law  and  Space  Policy,  in  which  more  than 
200 representatives of various countries, academia and 
businesses took part.
In general, my country attaches great importance 
to issues related to promoting the implementation of the 
sustainable  development  agenda  through  outer-space 
activities.  Our  Government  policy  stipulates  that  the 
results  of  outer-space  activities  must  be  used  for  the 
socioeconomic development of the Russian Federation 
and  its  regions  both  for  the  period  between  now  and 
2030  and  beyond.  This  year  Russian  spaceports 
launched  10  rockets  putting  22  spacecraft  into  orbit, 
10 of them foreign. As part of its basic space research, 
the  Russian  Federation  is  conducting  ExoMars,  an 
international Mars exploration project, as well as moon 
exploration projects with automated spacecraft. We are 
continuing our activities in the area of manned space 
flight, in which we are a world leader. Work is currently 
under way on a new generation of Federatsia manned 
transport spaceships designed to send people and goods 
to stations orbiting Earth and to the moon.
We are focusing seriously on issues related to the 
normative and legal regulation of outer-space activities, 
and  in  particular  we  are  working  on  improving  the 
system of registering objects launched into outer space, 
as well as studying possible options for implementing 
long-term  guidelines  for  the  sustainability  of  space 
activities based on our experience.
Like  other  participants  in  outer-space  activities, 
Russia greatly values the development of international 
cooperation,  including  in  areas  such  as  scientific  and 
technical  cooperation,  the  training  of  personnel  and 
cosmonauts,  joint  development  of  space  technology 
and its components and carrying out collaborative work 
in space. That also includes the monitoring of objects 
and events in near-Earth space, as well as the general 
state of the near-Earth space environment. We believe, 
indeed we are certain, that the Committee can become 
a  platform  for  sharing  experiences  on  a  broad  range 
of outer-space activities in the interests of sustainable 
development.
Mr. Hodgkins (United States of America): In 1958, 
soon  after  the  launching  of  Earth-orbiting  satellites 
had imparted new intensity to the cold war, the United 
Nations  created  the  Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses 
of  Outer  Space  (COPUOS)  in  the  hope  that  the  use 
of  outer  space  would  avoid  extensions  of  national 
rivalries  and  instead  be  harnessed  for  the  benefit  of 
humankind.  Recognizing  space  as  a  new  frontier  of 
human  endeavour  that  held  both  promise  and  danger 
in  equal  measure,  nations  aimed  to  erect  a  structure 
within the framework of the United Nations that would 
foster cooperation and shared benefits.
Over  the  past  six  decades,  the  Committee  has 
followed these principles in developing and supporting 
the four core outer-space treaties and in promulgating 
new legally binding consensus principles and guidelines 
for  activities  in  outer  space,  which  by  the  end  of  this 
meeting will include a set of voluntary guidelines for 
the long-term sustainability of outer-space activities. In 
doing so, the Committee continues to make important 
contributions to the global governance framework for 
outer  space.  COPUOS  has  also  acted  as  a  catalyst, 
promoting international cooperation in space activities 
and fostering information exchanges among developed 
and  developing  countries  on  the  latest  advances  in 
space exploration and applications.
The  American  space  programme  was  born  at  the 
height  of  the  Cold  War,  when  fears  of  a  super-Power 
space race over time reached their zenith. Fortunately, 
these  fears  abated  in  no  small  part  because  of 
information collected and conveyed by satellites. Today 
we  are  now  able  to  see  our  space  activities  primarily 
4/8 
18-34313
26/10/2018 
A/73/PV.26
as  an  instrument  of  human  advancement.  Over  the 
past  six  decades  the  Committee’s  growing  roster  of 
members has continued to serve as the United Nations 
leading  forum  for  advancing  the  peaceful  exploration 
and uses of outer space. The most recent way station in 
our shared voyage is the 2018 session of COPUOS and 
its Scientific and Technical and Legal Subcommittees 
(UNISPACE+50),  which 
fiftieth 
anniversary of the first United Nations Conference on 
the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, held 
in 1968.
celebrated 
the 
UNISPACE  I,  which  was  held  just  11  months 
before  the  first  humans  landed  on  the  moon,  raised 
awareness  of  the  vast  potential  for  space  benefits  for 
all humankind. UNISPACE II, in 1982, continued those 
efforts  particularly  in  promoting  space-technology 
applications  for  developing  countries.  UNISPACE 
III,  in  1999,  took  into  account  the  growing  number 
of  developing  countries  involved  in  space  activities. 
Building  on  its  success,  UNISPACE+50  recognized 
the growing importance of private-sector involvement 
in  space  exploration  and  applications.  We  were 
pleased  with  the  breadth  and  the  scope  of  the  topics 
considered,  as  well  as  the  presentations  by  leading 
scientists,  Government  officials  and  private-sector 
representatives.
this 
UNISPACE+50  has  continued 
impressive 
legacy of the ways that Governments, the United Nations 
and  civil  society  can  partner  to  advance  innovative 
space applications for the benefit of everyone. To that 
end, the United States was pleased with the success of 
the UNISPACE+50 commemoration that took place in 
conjunction with the sixty-first session of COPUOS in 
June. We were particularly pleased that UNISPACE+50 
initiated  a  process  for  the  Committee  to  develop  a 
Space2030 agenda over the next two years, setting the 
course for the Committee’s work through 2030.
My  delegation  would  like  to  take  note  of  the 
progress made during the first meeting of the Working 
Group on the Space2030 Agenda, held in Vienna from 
1 to 5 October. In this regard, the United States would 
like  to  thank  Ambassadors  Maria  Sabbatini  of  Italy 
and  Dumitru-Dorin  Prunariu  of  Romania  for  their 
outstanding leadership during the first meeting, which 
resulted in the development of a work plan and methods 
of work setting the Working Group on a path for success 
moving into next year.
The United States looks forward to continuing its 
participation  in  these  efforts  to  develop  a  visionary 
document that lays the foundation for the future work 
of  the  Committee  and  its  Subcommittees,  taking  into 
account new directions that Member States are taking to 
move beyond low-Earth orbits to go to the moon, Mars 
and other celestial bodies, as well as incorporating new 
and innovative commercial ventures.
Mr.  Ghaniei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Today 
space  science  and  technology  are  an  indispensable 
part of our daily lives. Our dependence on them could 
be  compared  to  our  dependence  on  air  and  the  seas 
and  oceans.  That  is  why  outer  space  is  considered 
part  of  the  common  heritage  and  the  province  of  all 
humankind. It must be explored and used for the benefit 
of the present and future generations of all peoples, and 
it must be free for equitable exploration, use and access 
by  all  countries.  That  is  the  inalienable  right  of  any 
State, regardless of its level of economic or scientific 
development.
Accordingly, as a founding member of the United 
Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space 
(COPUOS), Iran underlines the importance of ensuring 
the full application of universally agreed principles on 
outer space. This is the only approach whereby we can 
ensure the sustainable and equitable use of outer space by 
all States. In this context, we underline the importance 
of such principles as equality, the non-appropriation of 
outer space by claims of sovereignty, use, appropriation 
or  other  means,  non-discriminatory  cooperation 
in  outer-space  activities  and  non-intervention  and 
non-interference in the activities of States in exploring 
and  using  outer  space  for  peaceful  purposes.  Those 
principles must be fully respected by all.
Accordingly,  access  to  outer  space  through  space 
science, technologies and their applications should be 
available  to  all  States  without  discrimination  of  any 
kind.  They  are  indispensable  tools  for  sustainable 
development. To that end, and taking into account the 
urgency of developing countries’ need to be able to use 
space science and technologies in their socioeconomic 
development, cooperation with developing countries in 
outer-space activities should be promoted. Similarly, the 
non-discriminatory  transfer  of  related  science,  know-
how and technology must be promoted and ensured.
Iran also attaches great importance to the long-term 
sustainability  of  outer-space  activities,  which  should 
be an integral part of such activities and respected by 
18-34313
5/8
A/73/PV.26 
26/10/2018
all.  However,  long-term  sustainability  should  not  be 
used as a pretext for imposing limitations on the space 
activities of developing countries.
Equality is one of the most important principles of 
international  space  law  and  must  be  strictly  applied. 
For  instance,  the  exploitation  of  the  geostationary 
orbit  should  be  rationalized  and  made  available  to  all 
States  on  an  equal  basis  and  without  discrimination. 
Unfortunately,  the  existing  regulations  for  allocating 
slots on this orbit, which basically set forth a first-come, 
first-served  regime,  have  limited  many  countries’ 
capacity to gain access to it. Indeed, many orbital slots 
are occupied only by the most developed countries. At 
the  present  time,  therefore,  there  is  little  chance  for 
developing  countries  to  enter  outer  space  and  place 
their  own  geosatellites  in  appropriate  orbital  slots, 
which means they are deprived of more useful satellite 
services  and  excluded  from  enjoying  the  benefits  of 
geostationary  orbits.  That  is  an  inequality  that  must 
end.
One  of  the  cardinal  principles  of  international 
space  law  is  that  outer  space  may  be  explored  and 
utilized exclusively for peaceful purposes. Any attempt 
to militarize or weaponize outer space would seriously 
challenge that principle.
The  announcement  by  the  United  States  that 
it  will  create  a  new  military  force  for  outer  space  is 
an  alarming  development.  As  United  States  officials 
have stated, they seek dominance in space, view space 
as  a  war-fighting  domain,  and  plan  to  work  on  the 
development  of  a  space-based  weapon  system.  Such 
policies  and  measures  increase  the  possibility  of  an 
arms race or even actual conflict in outer space.
We  should  make  every  effort  to  ensure  that 
outer  space  will  be  explored  and  used  exclusively  for 
peaceful purposes. In this context, Iran fully supports 
the negotiation of a legally binding instrument on the 
prevention of an arms race in outer space.
I  would 
like 
to  conclude  by  stressing 
that 
promoting  the  greatest  possible  use  of  space  science 
and  technology,  ensuring  the  sustainability  of  outer-
space activities and ascertaining that space will remain 
a zone of peace are common responsibilities. We should 
fulfil them responsibly.
Ms.  Chan  (Canada):  Space  brings  an  abundance 
and  diversity  of  unique  and  fundamental  benefits  to 
Earth. As the space community moves forward with its 
exploration endeavours, space will continue to inspire, 
innovate  and  provide  real-world  applications  for  the 
benefit of humankind.
(spoke in French)
Canada, through its national space programme, is 
fully  committed  and  actively  working  to  ensure  that 
space  science  and  technology  provide  fundamental 
social  and  economic  benefits  to  all  Canadians  and  to 
the global community.
(spoke in English)
In  the  past  three  years,  through  the  preparatory 
process  for  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space+50 
(UNISPACE+50), the Committee on the Peaceful Uses 
of  Outer  Space  (COPUOS)  and  the  United  Nations 
Office  for  Outer  Space  Affairs  (UNOOSA)  have 
successfully promoted the use of space as a driver for 
sustainable development and increased the recognition 
of its unparalleled contribution to and indispensability 
in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. The 
high-level  UNISPACE+50  segment,  which  took  place 
in  Vienna  in  June,  was  an  excellent  opportunity  for 
the  international  space  community  to  showcase  and 
promulgate the socioeconomic benefits of space. From 
environmental  monitoring  to  disaster  management, 
agriculture, rural connectivity and job creation, space 
tremendously  benefits  people  and  the  planet  and  is  a 
dynamic driver for sustainable development.
(spoke in French)
Canada is honoured to have played a leading role 
throughout the preparatory process for UNISPACE+50. 
As the Chair of COPUOS for the 2016-2017 biennium 
and leader of thematic priorities 4 and 5, on outer-space 
weather  and  space  and  global  health,  respectively, 
Canada has sought to make a significant contribution 
to  UNISPACE+50  and  to  the  development  of  the 
Space2030 agenda for the Committee, its subcommittees 
and  UNOOSA.  Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have 
worked  closely  with  colleagues  from  COPUOS  and 
UNOOSA  to  achieve  significant  results.  In  addition 
to  highlighting  the  many  benefits  of  space,  Canada 
considers UNISPACE+50 an excellent opportunity for 
addressing the rapid evolution of the space agenda and 
the unique role played by the Committee and UNOOSA 
in  international  space  cooperation  and  the  global 
governance  of  space  activities.  We  fully  support  the 
adoption of draft resolution A/73/L.6.
6/8 
18-34313
26/10/2018 
(spoke in English)
The  UNISPACE+50  process  is  not  yet  over,  and 
through  its  follow-on  working  group  to  develop  a 
Space2030 agenda, Canada will continue to deliver on 
promoting the peaceful use and development of space, 
advancing  knowledge  of  space  through  science  and 
ensuring  that  space  science  and  technology  provide 
social  and  economic  benefits  to  all,  with  a  focus  on 
promoting diversity and women in space.
Canada  is  committed  to  making  concrete  and 
measurable  progress  on  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. In many instances, reporting on such progress 
will  require  data  and  information  derived  from  space 
assets. With the second largest landmass in the world, 
Canada  relies  heavily  on  Earth  observation  as  an 
essential and sometimes its only source of information. 
Canada’s 
long-standing  expertise  and  advanced 
achievement  in  space-based  Earth  observation  is  a 
key  asset  supporting  decision-making  in  sustainable 
development.
For  example,  space-based  Earth  observation 
data  has  proved  instrumental  in  providing  reliable 
information  on  conditions  in  the  Arctic.  For  northern 
communities,  the  ability  to  travel  safely  over  coastal 
sea ice is an essential part of their basic routine, which 
is becoming increasingly dangerous because of climate 
change. Given the extent, remoteness, and isolation of 
these regions, Earth observation is often the only cost-
effective  and  technically  feasible  means  of  obtaining 
reliable information on ice conditions.
In  addition,  over  the  next  few  months,  we  will 
launch  the  third  generation  of  Canada’s  Synthetic 
Aperture  Radar  Satellite  (RADARSAT)  programme, 
the  RADARSAT  Constellation  Mission  (RCM).  RCM 
will  have  a  significant  role  to  play  in  supporting  and 
tracking  progress  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  It  will  revisit  Canada’s  vast  territory  and 
maritime approaches on a daily basis and provide daily 
access to 90 per cent of the world’s surface. It will help 
lead our efforts to monitor our changing northern lands 
and coastal waterways, providing valuable information 
on  how  these  remote  regions  are  responding  to  both 
climate change and increasing resource development.
Although  national  commitments  and  advances 
are  key  steps  towards  progress  on  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  it  is  critical  that  we  continue  to 
share  expertise  and  work  together  regionally  and 
A/73/PV.26
globally  to  ensure  success.  No  country  can  do  this 
alone.
The Canadian delegation would like to once again 
applaud  the  United  Nations  for  its  continued  work  in 
challenging all Governments to work in a collaborative 
manner 
towards  ending  poverty,  building  more 
prosperous  and  peaceful  societies  and  protecting  our 
planet.
In conclusion, Canada is proud to support the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the work of 
COPUOS  and  the  Office  for  Outer  Space  Affairs  on 
the  Space2030  Agenda.  We  will  continue  to  leverage 
space  and  its  assets  in  support  of  the  successful 
implementation  of 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  thereby  increasing  the  socioeconomic  benefits 
to humankind. As an innovative, inspirational tool for 
peace,  diplomacy  and  collaboration  among  nations, 
space is already seen as and will increasingly prove to 
be a driver for sustainable development.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this agenda item.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.6,  entitled  “Fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the first United Nations Conference on the Exploration 
and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space: space as a driver of 
sustainable development”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
(Department 
Ms.  De  Miranda 
for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like to announce that since the submission of the draft 
resolution, and in addition to those delegations listed in 
document A/73/L.6, the following countries have also 
become sponsors of the draft resolution: Austria, Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Canada,  Chile,  Costa  Rica, 
France,  Greece,  Guinea,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Paraguay,  Portugal,  Singapore,  Spain, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
the United Arab Emirates, Ukraine and Uruguay.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.6?
Draft resolution A/73/L.6 was adopted (resolution 
73/6).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor for 
explanations of position after adoption of the resolution, 
18-34313
7/8
A/73/PV.26 
26/10/2018
I  would  like  to  remind  speakers  that  explanations  of 
position are limited to 10 minutes and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Hodgkins  (United  States  of  America):  My 
delegation  fully  supports  resolution 73/6, concerning 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  first  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of 
Outer  Space. However,  we  would  like  to  explain  our 
views  on  three  parts  of  the  resolution,  which  by  no 
means signifies that we have any objection to it.
The  United  States  recognizes  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  as  a  global  framework 
for sustainable development that can help countries to 
work towards global peace and prosperity. We applaud 
that  call  for  shared  responsibility,  including  national 
responsibility, within the 2030 Agenda, and emphasize 
that all countries have a role to play in achieving this 
vision. The 2030 Agenda recognizes that each country 
must work to implement the Agenda in accordance with 
its own national policies and priorities.
The United States also underscores that paragraph 
18 of the 2030 Agenda calls for countries to implement 
the  Agenda  in  a  manner  than  is  consistent  with  the 
rights and obligations of States under international law. 
We also highlight our mutual recognition in paragraph 
58  that  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  must 
respect  and  be  without  prejudice  to  the  independent 
mandates of other processes and institutions, including 
negotiations, and that it does not prejudice or serve as a 
precedent for decisions and actions that are under way 
in other forums.
In  terms  of  the Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster 
Risk Reduction 2015-2030, which is also mentioned in 
resolution 73/6, the United States reiterates its view on 
the Framework, which was set out in its explanation of 
position delivered  in Sendai in  March  2015. We  have 
been  a  strong  supporter  of  disaster-risk-reduction 
initiatives  that  are  designed  to  reduce  the  loss  of  life 
and the social and economic impact of disasters. This 
assistance  helps  the  recipients  to  build  a  culture  of 
preparedness,  promote  greater  resilience  and  achieve 
self-reliance.
Finally, with respect to the specific reference to the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change in resolution 73/6,
we want to note that the United States announced that 
it intends to withdraw from the Agreement as soon as 
it is eligible to do so, consistent with the terms of the 
Agreement,  unless  suitable  terms  for  re-engagement 
are identified. The language on the Paris Agreement in 
the resolution is therefore without prejudice to United 
States  positions.  We  recognize  that  climate  change  is 
a complex global challenge and affirm our support for 
promoting  economic  growth  and  improving  energy 
security while protecting the environment.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of position.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 
30?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 10.55 a.m.
8/8 
18-34313
