United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
23rd plenary meeting
Friday, 19 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda items 68 and 13
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/269 and 
A/73/270)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/273)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The  President:  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  join 
members  today.  Allow  me  to  thank  those  members 
who  participated  over  the  course  of  the  three-day 
2018  Africa  Dialogue  Series.  I  am  informed  that 
many  pertinent  and  invaluable  points  have  emerged 
from the proceedings, which I believe underscores the 
importance of that dialogue. It is particularly reassuring 
that  the  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the African Union is seen as being stronger than at any 
other time in history. That is good for Africa. It is also 
good for the world. We can all benefit from that lesson 
as we work to strengthen multilateralism.
In  that  connection,  the  implementation  of  the 
Joint  United  Nations-African  Union  Framework  for 
an  Enhanced  Partnership  in  Peace  and  Security  and 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Framework  for  the 
Implementation of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  requires  the  continuing 
support  of  the  international  community.  Africa  also 
continues  to  be  a  leader  in  other  areas.  I  commend 
the fact that Africa has more women in peacekeeping 
missions than any other region. Approximately 64 per 
cent of female peacekeepers come from Africa. That is 
in  addition  to  the  fact  that  Africa  already  contributes 
nearly half of all peacekeepers. In that regard, I would 
also like to echo other colleagues and the international 
community  in  commending  Ethiopia  on  achieving 
gender parity in its Cabinet. It has joined a select few 
countries that have achieved that ratio. Likewise, I must 
acknowledge our newest Nobel laureates — Mr. Denis 
Mukwege of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
Ms. Nadia Murad of Iraq — who have worked tirelessly 
to help end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of 
war  and  armed  conflict.  That  is  remarkable,  and  we 
thank them for their commitment.
We  are  here  today  to  reflect  on  the  three  reports 
of  the  Secretary-General  submitted  to  the  General 
Assembly on agenda item 68, entitled “New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development: progress in implementation 
and  international  support”  (A/73/269,  A/73/270  and 
A/73/273).  I  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
quality of the reports before us. Allow me to make two 
very quick points.
First, I am pleased to see that the report (A/73/269) 
on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) notes that African countries continue to make 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-32548 (E)
*1832548*

A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
progress  on  the  implementation  of  each  of  NEPAD’s 
priority  areas.  The  programme  for  infrastructure 
development in Africa, for instance, is addressing the 
infrastructure deficit on the continent. The interregional 
highways,  one  of  the  most  ambitious  infrastructure 
projects,  will  help  to  link  Ethiopia,  Kenya  and  South 
Sudan.  That  physical  integration  is  being  mirrored 
through trade policy. The establishment of the African 
Continental  Free  Trade  Area,  for  example,  represents 
a crucial step towards the creation of a single African 
market.  Finally,  progress  towards  the  implementation 
of the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development 
Programme  (CAADP)  opens  up  a  vast  horizon  of 
opportunities for the transformation of the continent. In 
that context, I note how closely that initiative is linked 
to the decent-work priority of the seventy-third session 
of the General Assembly. In the case of Africa, the huge 
youth population alone makes progress on the CAADP 
a necessity. Each of those developments points to major 
shifts  forward  towards  the  African  Union’s  vision  for 
an integrated, peaceful and prosperous Africa.
However, my second point is that greater support is 
needed, in my view, to accelerate and sustain progress. 
Commitments 
to  official  development  assistance 
and  other  financing,  including  financing  for  indirect 
investment, technology transfer, capacity-building and 
market  access,  must  be  fulfilled  in  the  spirit  of  true 
partnership. African countries, the regional economic 
communities  and  the  African  Union  have  made  great 
strides in building African capacities to tackle threats 
to peace and security. In order to support those efforts, 
there  should  be  adequate,  predictable  and  sustained 
financing  for  African  Union-led  peace  operations 
authorized by the Security Council.
Africa  is  at  the  heart  of  everything  that  we  do  at 
United  Nations.  We  cannot  succeed  elsewhere  if  we 
have not succeeded in Africa.
Mr. Hilale (Morocco): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Group of African States, 
and would like to align myself with the statement to be 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China.
We welcome the reports of the Secretary-General
(A/73/269,  A/73/270  and  A/73/273)  on  the  items 
under discussion. We wish to express our appreciation 
to 
leadership  and 
continued  commitment  in  placing  Africa’s  agenda  at 
the  heart  of  the  United  Nations  development  system. 
the  Secretary-General  for  his 
It  is  a  testimony  to  the  valuable  partnership  that  has 
continued to exist between the African Union (AU) and 
the United Nations.
This year’s general debate coincided with the Africa 
Dialogue Series, which served as a valuable occasion to 
highlight the synergies linking the various processes and 
the seriousness that must be attached to the development 
needs of the continent. There is no doubt that the United 
Nations-AU  partnership  for  Africa’s  development  is 
a  key  tool  in  strengthening  complementarities  and  in 
accelerating  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  AU’s  Agenda 
2063.  We  are  pleased  that  this  year  the  Office  of  the 
Special  Adviser  on  Africa  adopted  a  new  approach 
for  the  Africa  Dialogue  Series,  and  we  commend  its 
efforts in advancing Africa’s development agenda. We 
believe that such synergy and balance are fundamental 
to efforts to address the particular development needs 
of  our  continent.  As  such,  it  should  be  sustained  and 
improved upon in the coming years.
The African Group appreciates the valuable analysis, 
information and policy recommendations contained in 
the  Secretary-General’s  reports.  They  address  critical 
issues in the debate and advocacy for Africa’s inclusive 
growth and sustainable development. Since the adoption 
by the African Heads of State and Government of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD), 
the  Partnership  has  continued  to  reflect  Africa’s 
vision  and  strategic  framework  for  the  political  and 
socioeconomic 
transformation  of  various  priority 
areas,  including  agriculture,  food  security,  climate 
change  and  natural-resource  management,  as  well  as 
regional  integration  and  infrastructure.  NEPAD  has 
remained  committed  to  facilitating  and  implementing 
Africa’s priority programmes and to the consolidation 
of positive policy initiatives already adopted by African 
Member States for the transformation of the continent. 
We take this opportunity to express appreciation to our 
development partners for their assistance in the progress 
that the continent has made in the implementation of its 
various  programmes  and  projects.  We  further  request 
all  partners  to  support  efforts  by  African  countries 
to  promote  and  maintain  macroeconomic  stability, 
including by facilitating the development and transfer 
of technology to African countries.
The existence of the global digital divide highlights 
the  need  for  further  investment  and  the  allocation  of 
adequate  resources  in  order  to  prevent  Africa  from 
being left behind on the path to the information society, 
2/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
as the Secretary-General warns in his report (A/73/269). 
We note the findings of the Secretary-General’s report, 
particularly the existence of obstacles to the realization 
of the full potential of the application of information and 
communications technologies, especially in Africa. The 
harmonization of the policy and regulatory framework 
in  the  information  and  communications  technology 
sector  is  gaining  momentum  on  the  continent,  and 
the  African  Union  is  making  considerable  efforts  in 
that  direction.  We  therefore  call  on  the  international 
community  to  take  the  relevant  steps  towards  the 
achievement  of  a  people-centred,  development-
oriented  information  society  that  is  comprehensive  in 
its inclusivity and committed to the Tunis Agenda for 
the Information Society.
The  African  Group  notes  with  great  satisfaction 
that  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  emphasizes 
that  agriculture  remains  at  the  centre  of  Africa’s 
development agenda. As indicated in the report, Africa 
has  enormous  agricultural  potential.  The  continent 
boasts  the  largest  share  of  the  world’s  uncultivated 
fertile land, abundant water resources and proximity to 
transportation links and regional markets. It is therefore 
natural that our agriculture forms a significant portion 
of the economies of all African countries. As a sector 
with the potential to create jobs for African youth and 
thereby  improve  their  livelihood,  we  are  convinced 
that,  with  adequate  investment,  African  agriculture 
can  contribute  to  intra-Africa  trade  and  development 
and  economic  diversification.  However,  in  order  to 
eradicate poverty, which remains an overarching goal 
for the African Group, such assistance and investment 
must  be 
environmentally 
sustainable  and  ultimately  beneficial  to  all,  including 
smallholder farmers.
responsible, 
socially 
The signing in 2017 of the Joint United Nations-AU 
Framework for an Enhanced Partnership in Peace and 
Security  and  the  follow-up  signing  in  January  of  the 
AU-United Nations Framework for the Implementation 
of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development demonstrate the commitment of the two 
organizations to aligning their cooperation with priority 
areas.  In  that  regard,  the  Group  stresses  the  need  to 
promote  an  effective  and  efficient  implementation, 
follow-up  and  review  of  both  Frameworks  so  as  to 
maximize their impact and results on the ground. I would 
like  to  stress  that  a  multifaceted  approach,  involving 
the  mobilization  of  resources  and  the  strengthening 
of global partnerships for development, is required in 
order to achieve that lofty objective.
is 
a 
Sustainable 
development 
collective 
opportunity and responsibility that should be achieved 
through  multilateral  cooperation,  the  honouring  of 
international commitments and the provision of means 
of implementation support to developing countries. We 
are  concerned  about  the  growing  debt  crisis,  and  we 
request assistance aimed at ensuring that our volatility 
is curtailed. In that connection, we request assistance 
to strengthen the national capacities of African States 
to access sources of revenue that can be used to boost 
growth  and  development.  It  is  also  important  that 
developed countries and official development assistance 
(ODA) providers continue to uphold their commitments, 
in keeping with their previous undertakings to scale up 
ODA efforts.
The  African  Group  further  agrees  with 
that  natural  disasters  and 
the 
Secretary-General 
the 
effects  of  climate  change  severely  affect  vulnerable 
regions  and  populations,  particularly  those  of  Africa. 
Africa is essentially in a disadvantaged position in the 
pursuit of sustainable development. As such, increased 
international  assistance  in  the  areas  of  financing, 
trade,  technology  transfer  and  debt  relief  will  be 
essential  for  efforts  to  support  African  countries  in 
the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  We  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
enhance support and fulfil its commitments by taking 
further action in areas critical to Africa’s economic and 
social development.
The  African  Group  agrees  with  the  Secretary-
General that illicit financial flows deprive the continent 
of  vital  resources  for  financing 
its  development 
priorities. Stopping those illicit flows and repatriating 
illicit  assets  and  funds  to  their  countries  of  origin 
will  provide  the  region  with  increased  resources  for 
financing health, education, infrastructure and critical 
development  needs.  We  urge  development  partners 
to  support  efforts  by  the  African  Union  and  African 
countries  to  stop  that  menace  through  improved 
transparency  in  tax  systems,  as  well  as  by  disclosing 
the full beneficial ownership structure of companies.
We  note  the  negative  impact  of  gender  disparity 
manifested in the culture and norms of some African 
countries. While the leaders of the region continue to 
take  steps  to  address  that  challenge  in  the  interest  of 
all, the African Union, through its various educational 
18-32548
3/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
initiatives  and  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
will  continue  to  persevere  in  the  right  direction  with 
regard to that very sensitive issue.
Finally, peace, security and good governance are of 
the utmost priority in all development processes. While 
Africa has experienced a period of sustained economic 
growth  and  social  progress  in  the  past  two  decades, 
the effects of wars and violent crimes still persist. We 
request  the  United  Nations  system,  partners  and  all 
Member States to continue to assist African countries 
emerging from conflict in their efforts to build national 
capacities  by  fulfilling  commitments  relevant 
to 
creating  an  environment  conducive  to  peace,  security 
and sustainable development in Africa.
Mr. Edrees (Egypt): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  valuable  analysis,  information  and  policy 
recommendations contained in the Secretary-General’s 
reports  (A/73/269,  A/73/270  and  A/73/273),  which 
contribute  to  the  debate  on  issues  that  are  crucial  to 
Africa’s inclusive growth and sustainable development.
The  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063:  The  Africa 
We  Want  and  its  first  10-year  implementation  plan 
demonstrate  Africa’s  shared  visions  and  actions 
towards  peace  and  development.  The  adoption  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  in  2015 
further  underscored  the  shared  commitment  of  the 
international  community 
to 
eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  dimensions 
and  to  achieving  sustainable  development  in  its  three 
dimensions in a balanced and integrated manner.
to  working 
tirelessly 
The  Group  recognizes 
the  complementarities 
between  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  In  that  regard,  it  is  crucial 
that  we  continue  to  mobilize  international  support 
for  the  implementation  of  those  Agendas  in  order  to 
achieve  greater  synergies  between  the  regional  and 
international  development  frameworks.  Three  years 
into  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  and 
Agenda  2063,  it  is  evident  that  realizing  the  shared 
promise of the two Agendas of leaving no one behind 
is contingent upon our collective capacity to mobilize 
sufficient means of implementation, including financial 
resources,  technology  transfer  and  capacity-building, 
which must be as ambitious as the goals themselves.
In the same vein, scaling up international support 
is  crucial  for  building  resilience  and  promoting 
sustainability. In that context, the Group welcomes the 
monitoring mechanism report’s in-depth review of the 
implementation of commitments by African countries 
and  development  partners  in  various  development 
areas  (A/73/270).  As  such,  the  recommendations  of 
the report should contribute to better informed policy 
responses to development challenges and enhance the 
global  partnership  for  development  in  those  critical 
development areas.
The  Group  re-emphasizes  the  critical  role  of 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  and  foreign 
direct  investment  (FDI),  which  remain  major  sources 
of financing for development in Africa. The Group is 
deeply concerned about the fact that both ODA and FDI 
to Africa have declined over the past years. Therefore, 
the Group would like to reiterate that the fulfilment of 
all  ODA  commitments  remains  crucial,  including  the 
commitment on the part of many developed countries 
to achieving the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national 
income  (GNI)  for  ODA  for  developing  countries  and 
0.15 to 0.20 per cent of GNI for ODA to least developed 
countries.  We  urge  those  that  have  not  fulfilled 
their  commitments  to  step  up  efforts  towards  their 
ODA targets.
The  Group  recalls  that  African  countries  have 
taken  numerous  steps  to  address  peace  and  security 
challenges at the national and regional levels, including 
the  need  to  deal  with  terrorism  and  instability.  The 
Group of 77 and China is of the view that in order to 
complement and strengthen African efforts to address 
challenges  to  peace  and  security  on  the  continent, 
it  is  critical  that  partners  enhance  their  support  for 
African peace and security activities and help to build 
the  continent’s  own  capacities  to  prevent  and  resolve 
conflict  through  increased  assistance.  We  therefore 
maintain  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  system  to 
support African regional and subregional organizations 
in assisting the efforts of African countries to achieve 
the goal of a conflict-free Africa and to end all wars in 
Africa by 2020.
In  conclusion,  the  signing  of  the  Joint  United 
Nations-African  Union  Framework  for  an  Enhanced 
Partnership in Peace and Security in April 2017 and of 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Framework  for  the 
Implementation of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  in  January  demonstrate 
the  commitment  of  the  two  organizations  to  aligning 
4/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
their  cooperation  to  Africa’s  needs  and  priorities. 
It  is  imperative  to  promote  an  effective  and  efficient 
implementation  of,  follow-up  to  and  review  of  both 
Frameworks  to  maximize  the  impact  and  results  on 
the ground.
Mr. Dang (Viet Nam): I have the honour to deliver 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  10  States  members  of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
namely,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and my 
own country, Viet Nam.
ASEAN aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China.
At the outset, we thank the Secretary-General for 
his reports under this agenda item (A/73/269, A/73/270 
and  A/73/273),  which  have  provided  a  comprehensive 
review  of  the  progress  made  during  the  reporting 
period,  as  well  as  constructive  and  practical  insights 
into the way forward.
ASEAN  reaffirms 
its  solidarity  with  Africa 
towards the realization of our shared aspirations in the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for growth, 
prosperity  and  sustainable  development.  We  fully 
support the implementation of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  which  will  provide 
a  strong  foundation  for  the  African  Union’s  Agenda 
2063:  The  Africa  We  Want.  In  that  connection,  we 
welcome  the  good  progress  made  over  the  past  years 
in achieving the priorities set by NEPAD, in particular 
in 
infrastructure,  agriculture,  education,  gender 
mainstreaming and good governance.
We  are  pleased  to  note  the  positive  impact  of 
the  improving  global  economic  situation  on  African 
economies. The establishment of the African Continental 
Free  Trade  Area  in  March  will  certainly  spur  greater 
intra-African trade and economic integration. We know 
the  persistent  challenges  in  the  areas  of  agricultural 
productivity,  food  security,  economic  diversification, 
market access and the lack of financing and capacity. 
Nonetheless, it is encouraging to see that many African 
countries have continued to intensify their efforts and 
seize opportunities to accelerate progress on sustainable 
development  in  the  region.  We  welcome  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  Regional  Coordination  Mechanism  for 
Africa in order to effectively implement Agenda 2063 
and the 2030 Agenda.
ASEAN is also of the view that it is important to 
align  our  ASEAN  Community  Vision  2025  with  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in order to 
actively  explore  ways  to  implement  the  two  Agendas 
in an integrated way. We believe there is much we can 
learn from one another in that respect.
As  many  of  our  leaders  affirmed  at  the  general 
debate  last  month,  our  common  pursuit  of  durable 
peace and sustainable development is contingent upon 
our  ability  to  build  robust  global  partnerships  with 
a  strong  and  effective  United  Nations  at  their  core. 
For  its  part,  ASEAN  will  continue  to  work  together 
with  all  friends  and  partners,  including  in  Africa,  to 
uphold  the  values  of  multilateralism  and  honour  the 
international frameworks and agreements to which we 
have  committed  ourselves.  That  is  part  of  our  shared 
responsibility to our people and planet.
ASEAN as a whole, including its individual member 
States,  looks  forward  to  strengthening  its  partnership 
with Africa in implementing those global frameworks 
and  commitments.  Indeed,  we  believe  that  there  is 
scope  for  greater  collaboration  between  ASEAN  and 
Africa.  In  particular,  there  is  great  potential  for  our 
regional  organizations  and  member  States  to  enhance 
our linkages and knowledge-sharing in various fields, 
such  as  agriculture,  education, 
information  and 
communications  technologies,  trade  and  investment 
and  infrastructure  development,  including  through 
South-South and triangular cooperation.
In November 2017, manufacturers and technology 
firms from across Southeast Asia and Africa gathered 
in Johannesburg for the first Africa-ASEAN Business 
Expo  and  Forum.  That  inaugural  event  was  aimed  at 
creating a platform for linking businesses from Africa 
and  ASEAN  and  catalysing  trade  and  investment 
opportunities between the two regions.
partners, 
international 
In  conclusion,  we  are  in  full  agreement  that 
development 
financial 
institutions,  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
and  the  international  community  must  continue  to 
support African countries in their pursuit of sustainable 
peace and development. For its part, ASEAN remains 
steadfast  in  its  support  for  the  efforts  of  our  African 
friends and the international community to bring about 
meaningful  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the 
NEPAD agenda for the benefit of Africa and of all.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the observer of the European Union.
18-32548
5/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
Mrs. Pape (European Union): I have the honour to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the European Union 
and its member States.
comprehensive  national  policies.  The  monitoring  of 
those  policies  could  become  part  and  parcel  of  the 
African Peer Review Mechanism.
report  on 
latest  progress 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (A/73/269).  As 
a strong supporter of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  from  its  very  beginning,  the 
European  Union  welcomes  the  report’s  alignment 
with Agenda 2063 of the African Union and the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the report’s 
overall finding that African countries continue to make 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  priorities. 
We recognize the importance of infrastructure for the 
continent’s  industrialization  and  regional  integration 
and the shortfall in the investments needed to lift Africa 
to global standards. We welcome African initiatives to 
address that shortfall, such as the 5% Agenda initiative, 
recently launched by the Continental Business Network 
of  the  NEPAD  Agency.  The  European  Union  has 
long-standing  experience  as  a  partner  of  the  region 
in  cutting-edge  regional  investment  projects  that  are 
similar to those envisaged by the NEPAD initiative. An 
example of those projects is the Caprivi Interconnector 
linking power grids in southern Africa.
With  the  European  External  Investment  Plan, 
adopted  in  September  2017,  the  European  Union  is 
further enhancing the scale of its support by crowding 
in  investments  from  financial  institutions  and  the 
private  sector  through  a  €1.5  billion  guarantee  and 
blending  fund,  complemented  by  technical  assistance 
and support aimed at improving the investment climate. 
In  addition  to  the  existing  investment  facilities  of 
€2.6 billion, that fund is expected to leverage more than 
€44 billion in investments by 2020.
The  European  Union  remains  by  far  the  most 
important destination for African exports. We believe 
that  there  is  considerable  scope  to  increase  the  share 
of intra-African trade and welcome the signing of the 
African  Continental  Free  Trade  Agreement  in  Kigali 
in  March.  We  encourage  signatories  to  ensure  timely 
ratification  so  as  to  enable  the  Agreement  to  enter 
into force. The European Union and its member States 
attribute the same importance to high-quality education 
as  is  outlined  in  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  African 
Union’s Agenda 2063. In that context, we welcome the 
NEPAD  Agency’s  support  for  efforts  by  countries  to 
achieve  gender  parity  in  education.  We  recommend 
that  those  efforts  be  scaled  up  and  integrated  into 
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
are  encouraged  by  the  revitalization  of  the  African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism.  Peers  are  often  in  a  better 
position  to  address  governance  issues,  and  that  will 
also strengthen African ownership of reform agendas. 
Success will, however, be measured less by the number 
of participating countries than by the results achieved. 
In  that  context,  we  urge  the  improved  follow-up  and 
implementation of the African Peer Review programme 
of  action.  We  share  the  concern  expressed  by  the 
Secretary-General about the recent rapid increase in the 
debt  levels  of  many  African  countries,  especially  the 
share  of  debt  held  by  non-Paris  Club  countries.  Prior 
to that increase, there had been a massive reduction in 
African debt levels since the beginning of the century 
through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, 
to  which  the  European  Union’s  collective  financing 
contributed 41 per cent of the overall contributions.
and 
growth 
(A/73/269) 
choke 
We  echo  the  warning  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report 
that  excessive  borrowing  can 
potentially 
development, 
undermining  hard-won  socioeconomic  gains  through 
debt relief. In that context, we would like to stress the 
universality of the Sustainable Development Goals and 
recall,  in  particular,  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
target  17.4.  Against  that  backdrop,  it  seems  evident 
that the forthcoming second High-level United Nations 
Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation,  which  is 
known as BAPA+40 and is to be held in Buenos Aires 
in  March  2019,  presents  an  opportunity  to  address 
the challenge that should not be missed.
The European Union continues to firmly stand by 
its commitment to the 2030 Agenda, of which the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda is an integral part. We reiterate 
the need to facilitate the use of all sources of financing, 
including international and national private investment, 
domestic  public  resources  and  official  development 
assistance  (ODA),  and  underline  the  potential  of 
innovative finance. With regard to official development 
assistance, the European Union has maintained its role 
as the largest provider, accounting for over half of total 
ODA and increasing its share from 0.31 per cent of its 
gross national income in 1999 to 0.50 per cent in 2017.
the  European 
Union and its member States. That is reflected in the 
Africa  remains  a  priority  for 
6/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
Commission President Juncker’s announcement, during 
his 12 September State of the Union 2018 address, of 
a  new  Africa-Europe  alliance  aimed  at  deepening 
economic relations and boosting investment and jobs.
Mr.  Srivihok  (Thailand):  Allow  me  at  the  outset 
to  align  my  statement  with  that  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and  China,  and  by  the  representative  of  Viet  Nam  on 
behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN).  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  reports  submitted  under  this  agenda 
item (A/73/269, A/73/270 and A/73/273).
Africa  is  rising,  brimming  with  prospects  and 
potential.  We  celebrate  the  fifty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  formation  of  the  African  Union  (AU)  this  year. 
Thailand  congratulates  our  African  friends  on  their 
tireless  efforts  and  solidarity  in  working  towards  an 
integrated,  peaceful  and  prosperous  Africa.  Much 
progress  has  been  made  during  the  first  10-year 
implementation  plan  of  the  AU  Agenda  2063.  In 
particular, the establishment of the African Continental 
Free Trade Area and the signing of the single African 
air transport market agreement will no doubt promote 
greater regional integration and business opportunities 
for African peoples and the world.
Although  geographical  distance  may  separate 
Thailand and Africa, Thailand and African nations have 
always  enjoyed  long-standing  and  friendly  relations, 
which  are  further  enriched  by  growing  economic  ties 
and  cooperation  towards  sustainable  development, 
peace and stability and public health.
Looking  at  Africa  today,  we  cannot  ignore  its 
growing role in the global economy and the opportunity 
that  it  represents.  The  World  Bank  currently  lists 
Thailand as ASEAN’s largest trading partner in Africa, 
and we see Thai investment growing in the continent’s 
booming  sectors, 
fishery, 
infrastructure, automobile and tourism sectors. At the 
same time, we are aware of the challenges faced by the 
least developed countries in global trade, and Thailand 
has  been  doing  its  part  to  promote  market  access  of 
African goods in our country through the World Trade 
Organization’s duty-free and quota-free scheme, which 
in 2015 we committed to implementing for five years.
the  energy, 
including 
to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
but  also  the  unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Our  development  cooperation 
in  Africa  follows  a  demand-driven  approach  that 
aims  to  build  strength  towards  the  goal  of  self-
reliance. Through the Thailand-Africa Partnership for 
Sustainable Development, we are set to share the best 
practices  of  our  home-grown  development  approach 
with  Africa  in  areas  including  agriculture,  human 
resources development and public health.
Development cannot be sustainable without peace. 
Thailand stresses the importance of creating conditions 
conducive  to  sustainable  peace  and  commends  the 
positive  trends  in  Africa.  Thailand  has  taken  part  in 
past and present United Nations peacekeeping missions 
alongside  many  African  nations.  We  are  proud  to  say 
that our peacekeepers are early peacebuilders and that 
they approach their mandated tasks with our late King’s 
sufficiency  economy  philosophy  in  their  hearts  and 
minds. This year, our horizontal military engineering 
company  will 
in 
South Sudan.
the  peacekeeping  mission 
join 
While  Africa  has  made  remarkable  development 
progress, one of the most challenging tasks is promoting 
livelihoods  and  ensuring  healthy  populations  in  the 
process of achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  while  leaving  no  one  behind.  Thailand 
commends  the  continuing  role  of  the  international 
community in the progress achieved on malaria control 
and prevention. We need to redouble our efforts to end 
malaria by 2030, as envisioned by SDG target 3.3. We 
reiterate our continued support to our African friends 
through  our  capacity-building  programmes  in  health-
care  management  as  well  as  in  the  prevention  and 
management of epidemics.
In  conclusion,  let  us  look  ahead.  One  critical 
objective  for  Thailand  during  its  chairmanship  of 
ASEAN  next  year  will  be  promoting  cooperation  and 
partnership  for  sustainable  development  with  our 
partners  around  the  world.  In  that  context,  Thailand 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  cooperating  with  Africa 
in the pursuit of our common aspirations to prosperity, 
sustainable development, peace and a healthier world.
Development  cooperation  is  another  area  where 
Thailand  and  Africa  share  a  common  aspiration. 
Thailand has always been a strong supporter of South-
South and triangular cooperation, which aims not only 
Ms.  Alnaser  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, my delegation has the pleasure of congratulating 
Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on presiding over 
the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We 
18-32548
7/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
look  forward  to  the  positive  work  that  will  be  done 
during this session.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General (A/73/269) on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  We  have  looked 
with great interest at that effective partnership between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  African  continent,  which 
has culminated in the strengthening of peace, security 
and  stability  on  the  continent.  The  aim  is  to  address 
the  political,  economic  and  development  challenges 
in  Africa  so  that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development can be effectively implemented.
In  the  context  of  the  Secretary-General’s  review 
of  the  development  efforts  made  by  the  Organization 
in  conjunction  with  the  African  Union  (AU),  my 
country  supports  all  measures  undertaken  to  promote 
sustainable  development  in  Africa  and  to  strengthen 
cooperation with the African continent through the AU, 
in particular the agreement signed between the United 
Nations  and  the  AU  in  2017,  as  it  represents  a  basic 
pillar to support development on that continent.
My  country  commends 
the  achievements  of 
African  countries  in  the  area  of  development.  We 
also  support  all  joint  efforts  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  AU  aimed  at  establishing  a  common 
strategy  in  order  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063 for African 
development,  which  was  announced  at  the  African 
summit  held  in  Addis  Ababa  on  28  and  29  January. 
That framework seeks to expedite the implementation 
of  Agenda  2063  and  to  integrate  the  United  Nations 
and  AU  Agendas  into  one  to  ensure  their  effective 
implementation, while contributing to the achievement 
of  a  lasting,  people-centred  environmental  structural 
transformation in Africa.
Despite all the gains that have been made, we still 
remain concerned about the many obstacles that exist. 
High-ranking officials in Africa, the AU and the United 
Nations  must  enhance  those  gains  to  the  fullest  by 
implementing the following points.
First, they must find solutions to the many conflicts 
and situations of instability in various parts of Africa 
through  cooperation  and  support  to  peacekeeping 
operations  in  the  various  African  regions  concerned, 
as well as provide support to African peace operations. 
Secondly,  they  must  provide  support  to  the  security 
and  police  sectors  in  certain  African  States  in  order 
to  protect  defenceless  civilians  from  any  violations 
to  which  they  might  be  subjected.  Thirdly,  they  must 
strengthen human rights, social justice and all policies 
related to conduct and discipline in the area of sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse,  which  is  important  for  the 
support of AU peace operations.
My country takes pride in our historical relationship 
with  African  States.  We  enjoy  observer  status  in  the 
AU. In 2013, my country hosted the third Africa-Arab 
Summit  under  the  theme  “Partners  in  development 
and investment”, at which His Highness Sheikh Sabah 
Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah announced an initiative 
to  grant  soft  loans  to  non-Arab  African  countries  for 
five years through the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic 
Development.  Furthermore,  during 
the  Summit 
the  State  of  Kuwait  announced  that  it  would  invest 
$1  billion  through  the  General  Investment  Authority 
in cooperation with the World Bank, its affiliates and 
the  China-Africa  Development  Fund.  That  amount  of 
money  would  be  invested  in  the  infrastructure  of  the 
African continent.
Through  the  Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic 
Development,  which  was  established  more  than  56 
years ago, my country has contributed effectively to the 
support of sustainable development in many countries 
of  the  world,  especially  countries  on  the  African 
continent. The Kuwait Fund has cooperated with nearly 
42 African countries. We have focused particularly on 
the  road  sector  and  have  diversified  our  development 
projects to include the granting of soft loans and other 
non-refundable  loans  by  the  Kuwait  Fund  and  the 
Kuwaiti  Government.  The  Kuwait  Fund  granted  312 
soft loans during the fiscal year 2017-2018.
through 
the  Kuwait  Fund 
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  also  participated 
effectively 
for  Arab 
Economic  Development  in  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries Initiative, which was launched in 1996 by the 
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. We 
have  also  participated  in  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief 
Initiative,  and  the  Kuwait  Fund  has  rescheduled  its 
loans  to  the  borrowing  countries.  The  Kuwait  Fund 
has  also  implemented  debt-relief  agreements  with  27 
African States.
In conclusion, my country is committed to helping 
the least developed countries because we fully support 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We 
hope that African States will benefit from the report of 
the Secretary-General on supporting development and 
stability in Africa.
8/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
Mr.  Annakou  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his reports on this agenda item (A/73/269, A/73/270 and 
A/73/273). I also wish to thank Ms. Bience Gawanas, 
the Secretary-General’s Special Adviser on Africa, and 
Mr. Ibrahim Assane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) Planning and Coordinating Agency, for their 
efforts in supporting the African continent.
We also align ourselves with the statements made 
by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China, and by the representative of Morocco on 
behalf of the Group of African States. I would now like 
to express the concerns of my country, Libya.
This  meeting  on  NEPAD  is  being  held  three 
years  after  world  leaders  adopted  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  the  main  objective  of 
which  is  to  leave  no  one  behind,  and  African  leaders 
launched  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063,  a  50-
year  plan  aimed  at  establishing  peace,  security  and 
development  in  Africa,  and  its  first  10-year  human-
based implementation plan for achieving development.
Today,  I  will  focus  on  the  relationship  between 
development and security — as there can be no security 
without peace and no peace without security — in the 
light of the present report of the Secretary-General on 
the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace 
and sustainable development in Africa (A/73/273). This 
year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  annual 
report of the Secretary-General on that subject.
they  have 
According  to  the  report,  conflicts  in  Africa  tend 
to  be  intra-State  rather  than  inter-State  conflicts, 
and 
regional  dimensions.  They  are 
typically  transnational  conflicts  in  which  multiple 
actors  participate.  Conflict  prevention  constitutes 
the  overriding  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  and 
represents an integral part of the work of regional and 
subregional organizations, such as the African Union. 
The question that should be asked today is what has the 
international  community  done  to  help  African  States 
establish security and stability. More importantly, what 
have the African States or the African Union done to 
help  a  founding  member,  such  as  Libya,  to  tackle  its 
difficult circumstances?
Libya is the northern gate of Africa, and instability 
in my country means an expansion of conflict. Have the 
countries  of  the  African  Union  helped  Libya,  or  have 
they  instead  contributed  to  exacerbating  the  situation 
in my country? To set the record straight, allow me to 
be  transparent  and  clear  in  addressing  certain  issues 
to which my country, Libya, has been subjected since 
2011.  Those  issues  reveal  what  Libya  has  been  going 
through during a difficult transition phase.
First,  political  instability,  conflicts  and  armed 
clashes  have  often  led  to  a  weakened  State  and 
prevented  Libya  from  safeguarding  its  borders.  That 
in turn enables gangs trafficking in arms and persons 
to  practise  exploitation  in  countries  of  origin  and 
destination.  Because  of  its  current  circumstances, 
Libya,  as  a  transit  country,  is  subjected  to  massive 
waves of illegal migration from sub-Saharan countries. 
That  has  exacerbated  the  humanitarian  situation  in 
Libya owing to the inability of my country to control 
its  borders,  while  neighbouring  States  have  lagged 
in  their  efforts  to  monitor  their  borders.  Countries 
of  origin  put  the  blame  on  the  transit  country,  which 
is  the  victim  and  not  the  cause  of  the  problem.  The 
countries of origin and destination should assume their 
responsibilities towards illegal migrants, who suffer as 
a result of the actions of trafficking networks in those 
countries. Those networks are the driving force behind 
the risky migration in the desert and on the seas.
It  is  necessary  to  tackle  the  root  causes  of  the 
problem,  not  its  symptoms,  which  requires  genuine 
development  in  the  countries  of  origin  with  the  help 
of  the  destination  countries,  specifically  through  the 
transfer of technology, capacity-building, job creation 
and  the  provision  of  support  for  small  and  medium-
sized businesses, as well as action to combat criminal 
gangs in the countries of origin and destination and the 
transit  countries.  Once  stability  is  achieved  in  Libya 
and reconstruction is initiated, we can assure Members 
that we will be able to accommodate a large number of 
our African brothers as workers, in a regular and legal 
way that protects the rights of both the Libyan State and 
African workers.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  sustainable  development 
and maintaining the rights of future generations, which 
constitutes one of its pillars, I would refer to the assets 
of  the  Libyan  sovereign  wealth  fund  that  have  been 
frozen  pursuant  to  various  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  Those  assets  are  losing  value  owing  to 
the  sanctions  regime  imposed  since  2011,  which  is 
supposed to preserve those assets and funds. However, 
in  reality,  the  sanctions  have  caused  those  funds  and 
assets to incur enormous ongoing losses. Since March 
2016,  we  have  provided  the  Security  Council  and  its 
18-32548
9/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1970 
(2011)  concerning  Libya  with  extensive  information 
about  the  huge  losses  incurred.  We  have  requested 
that the Security Council amend the current sanctions 
regime so as to improve the management of those frozen 
assets without lifting the freeze in order to prevent such 
losses, which are not inevitable, and maintain that part 
of  the  Libyan  people’s  wealth  for  the  sake  of  future 
generations.  However,  the  Security  Council  has  not 
responded  to  our  repeated  requests,  which  we  regret. 
What have the three African countries that are members 
of the Security Council done in that regard? Did they 
support our interests and defend those legitimate, fair 
and urgent requests?
Thirdly, what is worse is that many African States 
have exploited the difficult transitional stage in Libya 
and started to confiscate and seize Libyan investments 
in their territories under false pretexts that run counter to 
signed agreements and international law. In that regard, 
we  confirm  that  Libya  intends  to  take  all  appropriate 
legal measures to restore its assets and its losses. The 
position of all those countries towards Libya during the 
current  phase  will  constitute  a  fundamental  factor  in 
our future relations with them.
Fourthly, 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable 
Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda have 
called  for  the  mobilization  of  the  necessary  financial 
resources  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. As part of mobilizing those resources, it is time 
for  all  countries  to  cooperate  in  order  to  implement 
the United Nations Convention against Corruption and 
to establish mechanisms for returning stolen funds to 
their  legitimate  owners.  In  that  regard,  Libya  looks 
forward  to  receiving  help  from  all  those  countries 
to  which  the  funds  of  the  Libyan  people  have  been 
smuggled. Those funds should be disclosed and must be 
returned to Libya in order to cover part of the funding 
needed to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. In that context, we call on States Members 
of the United Nations not to let their institutions serve 
as safe havens for the smuggled funds and to stop the 
smuggling  of  money  and  the  encouragement  of  the 
corrupt perpetrators.
From  this  rostrum,  I  ask  the  General  Assembly 
once  again  if  those  illicit  flows  of  funds  would  have 
been  possible  had  developed  States  not  allowed  their 
institutions to serve as safe havens for corrupt money. 
Would  the  corruption  and  illegal  flows,  which  have 
to  $100  billion  from  Africa  annually, 
amounted 
according  to  reports  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international  financial  institutions,  have  continued 
without 
the  acquiescence  of  certain  developed 
countries?  Will  the  African  Union  set  an  example  by 
addressing money flows and money smuggling within 
the continent, namely, from African States to African 
safe  havens?  Will  African  States  stop  serving  as  safe 
havens for corrupt money?
In  conclusion,  the  difficult  transitional  stages 
and  the  many  internal  concerns  that  we  are  currently 
experiencing  have  prevented  Libya  from  playing 
an  effective  role  in  Africa.  However,  we  assure  the 
Assembly  that  Libya  will  establish  stability  and  soon 
stand as a civil State based on the separation of powers, 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  peaceful  rotation  of  power. 
We will perform our effective role in true partnership 
with  Africa  in  order  to  advance  the  New  Partnership 
for Africa’s Development and help to ensure progress, 
growth and prosperity for African countries. That can be 
done through coordination, joint work and commitment 
to  the  cooperation  agreements  that  have  been  signed 
with  many  African  countries.  We  will  also  work 
together  to  achieve  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  African  Union  Agenda  2063  so 
that Africa will become a developed continent capable 
of  contributing  positively  to  the  advancement  and 
prosperity of humankind.
Mrs.  Furman  (Israel):  The  theme  of  the  current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies”.  In  that  spirit,  we  need  to 
focus  on  empowering  one  another,  strengthening  ties 
and  embracing  the  global  responsibility  to  achieve 
worldwide sustainable development.
As  highlighted  in  the  most  recent  reports  of  the 
Secretary-General on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (А/73/269,  А/73/270  and  А/73/273), 
African  countries  continue  to  make  progress  in  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) and the African Union’s Agenda 2063 in areas 
ranging from health care and education to agriculture 
and  women’s  empowerment.  Africa  faces  many  of 
the  same  development  challenges  that  Israel  has  been 
tackling  since  its  establishment  70  years  ago,  only  a 
few  years  before  many  African  countries  also  gained 
their independence.
10/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
Diplomatic relations between Israel and Africa go 
back  to  the  1950s  when  Golda  Meir  —  Israel’s  then 
Foreign  Minister  and  later  Prime  Minister  —  visited 
the continent for the first time. The aim of that historic 
trip  was  to  share  Israel’s  experience  and  know-
how  with  many  of  those  newly  formed  nations.  That 
was  when  she  decided  to  create  Israel’s  Agency  for 
International  Development  Cooperation  (MASHAV), 
which  is  responsible  for  the  design,  coordination  and 
implementation  of  the  State  of  Israel’s  worldwide 
development and cooperation programmes.
For  the  past  60  years,  MASHAV  has  worked 
with our African partners in the fields of health care, 
agriculture,  education,  women’s  empowerment  and 
innovation.  Some  70,000  trainees  have  benefited 
from training programmes within Israel and in on-site 
courses  throughout  the  continent.  MASHAV  follows 
a  train-the-trainer  capacity-building  approach.  That 
ensures  that  African  States  can  continue  to  rely  on 
their own expertise in future generations, making the 
development in question truly sustainable.
In  Ethiopia,  for  example,  MASHAV  works  with 
the  Ethiopian  Ministry  of  Agriculture  to  promote 
economic  growth 
in  rural  areas  by  organizing 
workshops  on  horticulture  production  and  marketing 
for  small  farmers.  That  training  has  led  to  concrete 
developments,  including  increased  avocado  exports 
and enhanced irrigation efficiency.
In another project, MASHAV partnered with local 
authorities  in  Ghana  to  reduce  infant  mortality  and 
improve access to high-quality health care by enhancing 
the professional capacity of hospitals and medical staff. 
We also work with the Government on another project 
to improve childhood education.
In  Kenya,  Israel  is  working  in  cooperation  with 
UN-Women  and  Kenyatta  University 
to  develop 
leadership  skills  among  women,  empowering  them  to 
engage  effectively  in  political  processes  and  to  bring 
about change in business and public life.
Israel  is  currently  engaged  in  several  agricultural 
projects,  including  a  rural  development  centre  in 
Rwanda  to  support  the  country’s  national  plan  to 
modernize  its  agricultural  sector  and  alleviate  rural 
poverty. All those projects and other MASHAV projects 
on the continent not only benefit local populations but 
also help Africa to achieve the SDGs. In that context, 
I  would  also  like  to  note  that  next  month,  Israel  will 
host  a  conference  on  the  effect  of  climate  change  on 
Africa. According to United Nations experts on climate 
change, 
the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change  and  other  climate  models,  Africa  is  one  of 
the continents most vulnerable to climate change. The 
conference will attempt to examine the measures that 
should be implemented in order to assist the continent 
in  combating  the  effects  of  climate  change  and 
its ramifications.
While time does not permit me to elaborate on all the 
projects  and  partnerships  between  African  States  and 
Israel, I want to highlight one Israeli non-governmental 
organization that is doing tremendous work in Africa 
to  save  children’s  lives.  Save  a  Child’s  Heart,  which 
recently  won  the  2018  United  Nations  Population 
Award,  provides  free  heart  surgery  to  children  in 
need  in  many  African  countries.  That  humanitarian 
organization  not  only  brings  thousands  of  children 
to  Israel  for  heart  surgery  not  available  in  their  own 
countries, but also trains African doctors and medical 
personnel to perform such operations back home.
Our  relationship  with  Africa  has  never  been 
stronger, and increasing those ties is a top priority for 
Israel. A testament to that is the fact that Israeli Prime 
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has visited Africa three 
times in the past two years. I wish to reaffirm Israel’s 
commitment  to  continuing  its  efforts  to  support  the 
development of Africa. Israel will continue to share its 
knowledge  and  expertise  so  as  to  inspire  and  support 
fellow  nations,  communities  and  individuals  on  their 
journey to achieve sustainable development.
Through the exchange of ideas and strategies, our 
nations  can  combat  mutual  challenges  together,  using 
sustainable solutions proved to work. We stand with our 
African partners to build a brighter future.
technology  and 
Mr.  Chumakov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We note with satisfaction that African countries 
are making consistent progress towards socioeconomic 
transformation.  Progress  in  areas  such  as  industry, 
agriculture,  health  care,  education,  information  and 
communications 
is  of 
particular  importance.  The  establishment  of  a  single 
African  air  transport  market  and  an  African  free 
trade area serve as important steps towards economic 
development  and  regional  integration.  Lifting  tariff 
and non-tariff barriers will help to boost intra-African 
trade, and regular direct flights among countries will 
create  momentum  for  the  development  of  industry, 
trade and tourism. It is evident that such efforts will, 
innovation 
18-32548
11/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
ultimately,  help  to  eradicate  poverty.  We  believe  that 
African countries need to determine independently, on 
the  basis  of  their  national  priorities,  their  policies  for 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want.
Along 
those 
leverage 
lines,  States  can 
their 
comparative  advantages  and  study  the  lessons  and 
experience of other global markets. We value the desire 
of countries to boost mechanisms for domestic resource 
mobilization  and  expand  public-private  partnerships, 
including  by  establishing  independent  tax  authorities, 
introducing  a  value-added  tax,  ensuring  transparency 
in revenues and expenditure and improving the overall 
business  climate.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  clear  that 
the  international  community,  in  particular  developed 
countries,  need  to  continue  to  deliver  assistance  to 
Africa as it seeks to achieve sustainable development.
is  a 
The  Russian  Federation 
long-standing 
partner  in  and  donor  to  international  efforts  to 
deliver  multifaceted  assistance  to  African  countries. 
Specifically  with  regard  to  trade,  we  provide  broad 
concessional arrangements to a host of countries. With 
regard to African goods, a concessional duty and tariff 
regime covers the lion’s share of Russian imports from 
Africa.  Russia  is  also  proactively  helping  to  ease  the 
debt  burden  of  African  countries.  To  date,  under  the 
Highly  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Initiative,  Africa’s 
principal debt has been written off, amounting to more 
than  $20  billion.  Under  the  Debt  for  Development 
programme,  intergovernmental  agreements  are  being 
implemented  with  Madagascar,  Mozambique  and 
Tanzania.  More  than  11,000  African  students  attend 
Russian  tertiary  education  institutions.  The  Russian 
international 
Federation  provides  contributions 
assistance  programmes 
through 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank,  the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  UNICEF,  the 
World  Food  Programme  and  the  International  Civil 
Defence Organization. We have contributed $20 million 
to  implement  the  World  Bank  programme  to  combat 
malaria in African countries. We have also contributed 
$18  million  to  WHO  to  implement  the  global  polio 
eradication initiative.
to 
for  Africa 
is  keen 
The  Russian  Federation 
to  develop 
wide-ranging partnerships with African countries. We 
stand ready to continue to facilitate sustained economic 
growth  and  greater  employment  in  order  to  develop 
infrastructure and overcome health-care challenges.
Mr.  Al-Kuwari  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank the President of the General 
Assembly for convening today’s meeting to discuss the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
We have taken note of the reports of the Secretary-
General under this agenda item (A/73/269, A/73/270). 
One  of  those  two  reports  refers  to  the  formidable 
challenges  that  African  countries  face  in  achieving 
sustainable  development  and  the  importance  of  the 
international  community  providing  more  support 
through  financing,  trade  and  debt  relief.  All  those 
issues are crucial in supporting African countries in the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The report of the Secretary-General on the causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa (A/73/273) contains 
many  important  recommendations  and  conclusions. 
It  indicates  the  importance  of  taking  all  necessary 
measures to help African countries avert the outbreak 
or  recurrence  of  crises  and  violent  conflicts,  which 
have  a  negative  impact  on  civilian  populations  and 
undermine institutions and the capacity for achieving 
peace and development.
It  goes  without  saying  that  addressing  the  root 
causes of conflict is important in order to achieve the 
goal of ensuring a conflict-free and harmonious Africa, 
in  the  context  of  implementing  Agenda  2063  of  the 
African  Union,  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  which  emphasizes  the  importance  of 
supporting  NEPAD  and  Agenda  2063,  seen  as  an 
integral part of the sustainable development agenda.
The State of Qatar believes that the achievement of 
security, stability and peace for all nations contributes 
significantly to efforts to attain sustainable development 
and  to  change  people’s  lives  for  the  better.  The  State 
of  Qatar  plays  an  important  role  in  the  international 
community  to  that  end.  It  is  committed  to  providing 
support  to  developing  countries  that  seek  to  improve 
livelihoods  in  their  communities.  The  State  of  Qatar 
has  provided  voluntary  development  assistance  to 
developing countries, in particular the least developed 
countries; development assistance at the governmental 
and  non-governmental  levels  exceeded  $2  billion  in 
2017. The African continent received the lion’s share.
Under  the  wise  leadership  of  His  Highness  the 
Emir  of  the  State  of  Qatar  and  in  solidarity  with 
African nations, we continue to step up our efforts to 
12/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
assist development projects in Africa and to support the 
infrastructure, education and health sectors.
Mr.  Yelchenko  (Ukraine)  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The  Qatar  Development  Fund  has  provided 
developing countries in Africa with financial resources 
through  relief  and  development  projects,  including 
support  for  596,000  students  to  enrol  in  primary 
education.  That  reflects  our  firm  belief  in  the  fact 
that  access  to  primary  education  for  children  is  a 
driving force in human development. We also support 
infrastructure projects, such as those related to building 
roads, power generation and health care.
African  States  have  the  primary  responsibility 
for  their  socioeconomic  development.  However,  the 
support  of  the  international  community  is  needed  to 
assist  the  efforts  of  those  States.  The  commitments 
made  by  the  international  community  in  that  respect 
should be honoured. The State of Qatar reiterates that it 
will remain committed to working in partnership with 
the  international  community  in  order  to  advance  the 
sustainable development agenda, in particular NEPAD.
Ms.  Blais  (Canada):  It  is  an  honour  for  Canada 
to  make  this  statement  at  today’s  debate  on  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  Canada  has 
actively  participated,  as  a  partner  and  a  peer,  in 
this  week’s  Africa  Dialogue  Series.  We  very  much 
appreciate the opportunity to listen to our friends and 
colleagues as we explore a stronger African Union and 
United  Nations  partnership  for  peace,  security  and 
development  in  Africa.  Canada  understands  that  we 
need to listen and learn in order to contribute to better 
outcomes. That is what we do, both at home and abroad 
and in this Hall today.
Canada  commends  the  leadership  of  African 
countries, the African Union and the regional economic 
communities in efforts to advance regional integration 
and mainstream the priorities of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda  2063:  The  Africa  We  Want.  We  should  all 
support  Africa  as  it  works  to  create  opportunities  for 
its youth and to meet its ambitions. Africa will do that 
through greater economic integration, which will lead 
to prosperity.
During  the  General  Assembly’s  high-level  week, 
Canada’s Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, was proud to 
partner with President Akufo-Addo of Ghana, President 
Kagame  of  Rwanda  and  Prime  Minister  May  of  the 
United  Kingdom  to  lead  a  discussion  on  investing  in 
decent jobs and opportunities for young people across 
Africa. Let me take a moment to acknowledge that the 
World  Bank  has  just  confirmed  that  Seychelles  has 
made the most progress in achieving the development 
of human capital. It is an inspiration to all Africa that 
a  small  nation  can  make  so  much  progress  in  only  a 
short period of time. We also know that over the next 
20 years, the world’s 10 fastest growing cities will all 
be in Africa. To support that reality, we need to build 
essential infrastructure.
To help bridge the financial gap in order to make 
that  happen,  Prime  Minister  Trudeau  announced  the 
creation  of  an  affiliate  of  the  Global  Infrastructure 
Hub  in  Toronto  to  leverage  Canada’s  expertise  in 
infrastructure so as to help connect capital to projects 
in  Africa  and  beyond.  Such  projects  fuel  long-term 
economic growth and support the transition to a low-
carbon  economy,  while  making  progress  towards 
achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  improving  the  representation  of  women  and 
marginalized groups in sustainable infrastructure. Aid 
alone  is  not  enough.  Economic  growth  also  derives 
from  high-quality  education.  That  is  why  Canada  led 
the Group of Seven (G-7) in raising $4 billion towards 
girls’ education. The Prime Minister was very pleased 
to sit down with the Presidents of the Central African 
Republic,  Sierra  Leone  and  Zambia  and  the  Foreign 
Minister  of  The  Gambia  at  this  year’s  session  of  the 
General Assembly to discuss the issue and to find out 
from them how the money can be disbursed and how we 
can work with them to achieve that common goal.
With  respect  to  climate  change,  in  a  statement 
to  the  General  Assembly  to  mark  the  opening  of  the 
Paris Agreement for signature in 2016, Prime Minister 
Trudeau  said  that  developing  countries  should  not  be 
punished for a problem they did not create, nor should 
they be deprived of the opportunities for clean growth 
that developed nations are now pursuing.
Therefore,  as  part  of  our  G-7  presidency  this 
year,  we  felt  strongly  that  we  needed  to  tackle  the 
issue  of  climate  resilience  and  disaster  recovery.  We 
were honoured that the Presidents of Rwanda, Kenya, 
South  Africa  and  Seychelles  participated  in  that 
critical conversation.
Our oceans and coasts are under considerable threat. 
Resilient  coastal  communities  and  healthy  oceans  are 
18-32548
13/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
vital to growing economies that work for everyone, and 
that is why we are committed to working with others 
to protect the world’s oceans. In that vein, Canada will 
partner  with  Kenya  and  Japan  to  host  the  first  global 
conference on the sustainable blue economy this fall in 
Nairobi. We hope that all Members will join us.
Under  the  2030  Agenda,  we  also  collectively 
agreed to end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis and 
malaria over the next 12 years. For that reason, Canada 
continues  to  support  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  an  organization  that  works 
closely with sub-Saharan countries and disburses 65 per 
cent of its funding to eliminate those three diseases.
(spoke in French)
to 
including 
through  our  deployments 
Canada  believes  in  African  leadership.  In  that 
regard,  Canada  joined  the  consensus  to  elect  Louise 
Mushikiwabo  of  Rwanda  to  head  the  International 
Organization  of  la  Francophonie.  We  congratulate 
her  and  look  forward  to  working  with  her.  With  the 
Assembly’s support, Canada, with French as one of its 
official languages, will be a voice for la Francophonie in 
the Security Council for the period from 2021 to 2022.
Canada  is  proud  to  continue  its  long  history  of 
contributing 
international  peace,  security  and 
stability, 
in 
the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali,  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  United  Nations 
Mission  in  South  Sudan.  As  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls  are  key  priorities 
for  Canada,  we  have  launched  the  Elsie  Initiative,  a 
pilot  project  to  increase  the  meaningful  participation 
of women in United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
Canada  will  establish  bilateral  technical  assistance 
and training partnerships with the Ghana armed forces 
and the Zambia police force. We will also support the 
implementation  of  the  gender-mainstreaming  strategy 
in Senegal’s armed forces.
the  Congo  and 
time  and, 
Only  together  can  we  meet  the  great  challenges 
in  particular,  seize  emerging 
of  our 
opportunities. Whether it is creating economic growth 
for  the  benefit  of  all,  combating  climate  change  or 
building a more peaceful world, Canada is committed 
to  working  with  African  Member  States  to  build  a 
better future for us all.
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  aligns 
itself with the statements delivered by the representative 
of Egypt on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and the 
representative of Viet Nam on behalf of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations.
My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  (A/73/269,  A/73/270  and 
A/73/273) under this agenda item, which highlight the 
progress  achieved  in  the  implementation  of  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and set 
forth practical recommendations.
taking  place 
My  delegation  is  very  pleased  to  see  positive 
transformations 
in  Africa.  African 
economies continue to gain momentum, following the 
upturn in the global economy. Overall, growth reached 
3.6 per cent in 2017, exceeding the rate in other regions 
and  marking  a  significant  rebound  from  2.2  per  cent 
in  2016.  The  continent  is  also  making  strides  in  the 
implementation  of  the  NEPAD  priorities,  particularly 
agriculture, 
gender 
mainstreaming  and  governance.  The  establishment  of 
the  African  Continental  Free  Trade  Area  in  March  is 
a welcome development, with the potential to promote 
intra-African  trade  and  greater  economic  integration. 
While NEPAD embodies African countries’ acceptance 
of responsibility for their own development, sustainable 
development  in  Africa  cannot  be  achieved  by  the 
African countries alone. We all share the responsibility 
to ensure that African countries are not left behind.
infrastructure, 
education, 
The critical role of official development assistance 
and foreign direct investment cannot be overstated, and 
we  call  for  the  fulfilment  of  all  the  commitments  of 
that kind made by development partners. Efforts must 
be  made  to  provide  debt  relief  for  African  countries. 
We must address Africa’s disproportionately low share 
of 
trade.  Infrastructure  development 
is  imperative  to  facilitate  trade  and  promote  Africa’s 
integration  into  the  global  economy.  Equally  critical 
is  the  continuous  provision  of  capacity-building  and 
policy advisory support.
international 
Indonesia  has  always  been  a  true  partner  for 
African  countries.  Such  a  partnership  can  be  traced 
as far back as the 1955 Asian-African Conference held 
in Bandung, Indonesia. We take pride in co-initiating 
with  South  Africa  the  New  Asia  Africa  Strategic 
Partnership  to  promote  cooperation  between  the  two 
regions.  With  no  less  than  1,100  participants  over 
the  past  decade,  African  countries  continue  to  be 
14/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
among  the  top  recipients  of  Indonesia’s  South-South 
cooperation programme, which is based entirely on the 
principles  of  non-conditionality  and  demand-driven 
considerations.  Early  this  year,  Indonesia  also  hosted 
the  first-ever  Indonesia-Africa  Forum  to  promote 
trade and investment cooperation. Suffice it to say that 
the  Forum  was  a  great  success,  resulting  in  business 
deals  worth  no  less  than  $586  million.  During  the 
Forum,  a  series  of  meetings  was  also  held  to  begin 
preferential trade agreement discussions with a number 
of African countries.
Building on that momentum, we will convene the 
Indonesia-Africa  Infrastructure  Dialogue  in  August 
2019, which will address that issue of high priority to 
both Indonesia and Africa. Later this month, Indonesia 
will  host  the  Indonesia-Africa  Maritime  Dialogue  on 
the margins of the “Our Ocean” Conference to explore 
cooperation  on  sustainable  fisheries  and  maritime 
security,  including  through  the  exchange  of  best 
practices and capacity-building.
There  can  be  no  sustainable  development  without 
peace. Indonesia is committed to supporting peace and 
stability in Africa, including through its participation 
in United Nations peacekeeping. No fewer than 1,388 
Indonesian  peacekeepers  are  currently  deployed  in 
seven United Nations peacekeeping missions in Africa, 
and we are now in the process of deploying a 850-person 
strong rapid deployment brigade to the United Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  commending  African 
leaders for their excellent stewardship and unwavering 
commitment  to  the  pursuit  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development. Indonesia stands ready to be 
part of the positive transformation of Africa.
Mr. Sinha (India): We align our statement with the 
statement delivered by the representative of Egypt on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
We  meet  at  a  time  when  we  are  well  under  way 
on  the  journey  towards  the  achievement  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  adopted  three 
years ago. In addition, our African partners have also 
commenced  the  first  phase  of  the  implementation  of 
the African Union’s mutually reinforcing, longer-term 
Agenda 2063. Africa has made rapid strides in recent 
years  in  every  aspect.  Compared  with  even  a  decade 
ago,  the  continent  is  more  peaceful.  Its  governance 
institutions  are  stronger.  Its  overall  economic  output 
has  grown.  Poverty  rates  have  fallen.  Infrastructure 
and connectivity are improving, and the economies are 
more diversified. Life expectancy has increased. Infant 
and  maternal  mortality  rates  have  fallen.  Africa  is  a 
young  continent.  It  is  projected  to  account  for  nearly 
one  fifth  of  the  world’s  population  by  2030,  with  a 
demographic  dividend  that  can  be  of  great  advantage 
provided that young people have the education and the 
skills needed for economic opportunities.
Long-standing trade and diaspora links across the 
Indian Ocean, a shared colonial past and our common 
development challenges have framed India’s relationship 
with  Africa.  Going  forward,  shared  prosperity  is  the 
theme of our partnership. Our development partnership 
currently  includes  the  implementation  of  180  lines  of 
credit,  worth  approximately  $11  billion,  in  over  40 
African countries. At the previous India-Africa Forum 
Summit,  we  committed  a  concessional  line  of  credit 
of  $10  billion  and  $600  million  in  grant  assistance. 
Every year, more than 8,000 African young people are 
trained  in  a  diverse  set  of  programmes  in  India.  As 
always, our efforts will be driven by African priorities. 
Indian companies have invested more than $54 billion 
in Africa.
Our trade with Africa now amounts to more than 
$62 billion. That is over 21 per cent more than in the 
previous  year.  Africa’s  exports  to  India  are  growing, 
and our economic ties are now increasingly driven by 
new partnerships of innovation in the digital economy. 
The  Pan-African  e-Network  Project  links  48  African 
countries to India and to one another. It can become the 
new backbone of digital innovation in Africa. Working 
with  several  African  coastal  nations,  our  partnership 
now  seeks  increasingly  to  harness  the  benefits  of 
the  blue  economy  in  a  sustainable  manner.  India’s 
medicines  have  turned  the  tide  on  diseases  that  were 
once a threat to Africa’s future. They also continue to 
make  health  care  affordable  and  accessible  to  many. 
The International Solar Alliance, championed by India 
and France, has been joined by 70 nations, including 25 
from Africa. The Alliance is making ambitious strides 
in  contributing  tangibly  to  global  efforts  to  promote 
renewable energy and climate action.
Indian  leaders  continue  to  attach  a  very  high 
priority  to  our  partnership  with  Africa.  Earlier  this 
year, Prime Minister Modi paid an official visit to three 
countries of the continent. During the past four years, 
the  top  leadership  of  India,  including  the  President, 
Vice-President and Prime Minister, have visited more 
18-32548
15/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
than 20 African countries. Indian ministers visited all 
54 partner countries during that period. We have also 
had 32 incoming visits by African Heads of State and 
Government,  in  addition  to  the  landmark  third  India-
Africa Forum Summit, held in Delhi three years ago, in 
which all 54 African nations participated, including 41 
African Heads of State and Government. India has also 
engaged  with  the  Group  of  20  and  the  BRICS  group, 
comprising  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China  and  South 
Africa,  on  issues  concerning  Africa’s  development 
priorities.
I would like to conclude by reiterating that India’s 
partnership with Africa is based on building instruments 
of empowerment for Africa. India stands together with 
Africa in its endeavours, while upholding the principle 
of equality. In a similar spirit, we look forward to the 
High-level United Nations Conference on South-South 
Cooperation on the occasion of the fortieth anniversary 
of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for 
Promoting  and  Implementing  Technical  Cooperation 
among Developing Countries.
Last  year,  here  at  the  United  Nations,  India 
established  the  India-United  Nations  Development 
Partnership  Fund,  stepping  up  its  efforts  to  promote 
South-South  cooperation.  A  sum  of  $150  million  has 
been committed for the next decade, the focus of which 
will be development projects in least developed countries 
and small island developing States. In its first year, the 
Fund has already initiated projects in nine countries in 
Africa and will continue to enhance its outreach, which 
continues  to  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063 and stands true to the 
principle of leaving no one behind.
Ms.  Khyne  (Myanmar):  Myanmar  aligns  itself 
with the statements made by the representatives of Viet 
Nam, on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations,  and  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and China.
for  his  comprehensive 
I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General 
reports 
(A/73/269, A/73/270 and A/73/273), which highlight the 
progress, impact and challenges of African countries in 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and the African Union’s Agenda 2063, and 
provide  recommendations  on  the  way  forward  for  the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
Myanmar highly values relations with countries in 
Africa. Myanmar was one of the leading countries that 
organized  in  1955  the  first  Asia-Africa  Conference, 
also  known  as  the  Bandung  Conference,  to  cultivate 
greater  friendship  and  cooperation  between  African 
and  Asian  countries.  Myanmar  also  welcomed  the 
New Asian-African Strategic Partnership, which seeks 
to  rekindle  the  spirit  of  friendship  and  cooperation 
between  the  two  continents.  Given  its  long-standing 
friendship and relations with Africa, Myanmar attaches 
great importance to NEPAD and remains committed to 
its  implementation  aimed  at  achieving  socioeconomic 
transformation and development in Africa.
Myanmar  congratulates  Africa  on  making  great 
strides in the economic and social fields over the past 
years.  We  welcome  the  important  progress  towards 
the  implementation  of  several  key  areas  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  particularly  in 
infrastructure, agriculture and gender mainstreaming. 
Africa’s  gross  domestic  product  growth  rate  rose  to 
3 per cent in 2017, as compared to 1.7 per cent in 2016, 
and  concrete  steps  are  being  taken  in  the  health  and 
education  sectors  to  advance  progress  in  the  social 
sphere. We appreciate the efforts made by our African 
friends, 
their  respective  national  development 
frameworks,  in  mainstreaming  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda 2063, which has started to bear fruitful results. 
Myanmar welcomes the launch this year of the Single 
African  Air  Transport  Market  and  the  establishment 
of the African Continental Free Trade Area. Myanmar 
hopes that the creation of such intra-African trade will 
generate dynamic economic gains and a more resilient 
African economy.
in 
Notwithstanding 
those  positive  developments, 
Africa still needs to overcome persistent and emerging 
challenges. The progress we have witnessed is clearly 
not enough. In order to accelerate the implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063 and to achieve our 
common goal of sustainable development, the African 
countries  and  the  international  community  need  to 
intensify  their  collective  efforts.  I  wish  to  highlight 
some points towards that end.
Adequate and predictable financing is indispensable 
for  the  successful  implementation  of  those  Agendas 
if  no  one  is  to  be  left  behind.  Financing  remains  a 
growing challenge, even though bilateral aid to Africa 
increased  in  2017.  Efforts  therefore  need  to  be  made 
to increase official development assistance to African 
countries,  in  line  with  the  pledges  made.  We  need  to 
foster  a  closer  partnership  between  Africa  and  the 
16/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
international community, including the United Nations 
system. Cooperation in the areas of trade, investment, 
technology  transfer,  debt  relief  and  addressing  illicit 
financial  flows  is  crucial  to  supporting  African 
countries  in  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  also  need  to  promote  South-
South and triangular cooperation for the development 
of  Africa,  while  complementing  relations  with  its 
traditional development partners.
The  United  Nations  system  continues  to  play  a 
pivotal  role  in  realizing  the  priorities  of  the  African 
Union and NEPAD at both the global and the regional 
levels by providing substantial support to programmes 
and  projects 
inclusive  and  sustainable 
development  of  Africa.  My  delegation  hopes  that  the 
repositioning of the United Nations development system 
will further enhance the capacities of African countries 
in their pursuit of sustainable development.
the 
for 
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate Myanmar’s strong 
commitment  to  working  closely  with  our  African 
friends  to  achieve  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and Agenda 2063. I also wish to reaffirm 
our friendship and solidarity with Africa. Together, we 
will achieve a better future that leaves no one behind.
Mr.  Stefanile  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union,  and  would  like  to  add  a  few  remarks  in  its 
national capacity.
We  welcome  the  latest  report  of  the  Secretary-
General (A/73/269) on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  which  outlines  the  progress 
made  by  the  African  countries  in  the  implementation 
of  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  and  the  United 
Nations  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
The  report  shows  that  African  countries  continue 
to  make  important  advancements  in  implementing 
NEPAD’s  priorities,  particularly  in  infrastructure, 
agriculture,  education,  gender  mainstreaming  and 
public governance. Among those positive developments, 
which we sincerely commend, the establishment of the 
African  Continental  Free  Trade  Area  stands  out  as  a 
particularly  significant  achievement  that  could  create 
momentum  towards  continental  integration  and  help 
to achieve the African Union’s vision of an integrated, 
peaceful and prosperous Africa. At the same time, the 
Secretary-General’s report analyses the challenges that 
must  still  be  addressed,  including  the  need  to  build 
sustainable partnerships with international actors.
Italy stands ready to work in that direction together 
with  its  African  partners.  Because  of  its  history, 
geography and cultural traditions, Italy has always had 
a  strong  and  profound  relationship  with  Africa.  Over 
the years, we have invested significant resources in the 
future  of  the  continent,  with  an  integrated  approach 
encompassing  humanitarian  assistance,  development 
cooperation  and  private  investments.  Our  action  has 
always  been  and  remains  inspired  by  the  following 
principles: African ownership in defining development 
priorities, transparency and shared responsibility.
Our  engagement  has  been  consistent  over  the 
years  and  is  being  scaled  up.  In  2018,  the  resources 
allocated  for  Africa  by 
the  Italian  Development 
Cooperation amount to €182 million — an increase of 
11.6 per cent, as compared to last year. More generally, 
Italy  is  assisting  with  training  and  capacity-building 
programmes  in  many  parts  of  Africa,  from  Libya 
to  the  Sahel  and  the  Horn  of  Africa,  in  various  areas 
identified  in  agreement  with  the  local  authorities  and 
with full respect for the principle of African ownership. 
Italy’s  engagement  is  particularly  strong  in  the  Horn 
of Africa. Last week, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte 
visited Ethiopia and Eritrea in order to express concrete 
support  for  the  normalization  process  being  carried 
forward  by  the  leaders  in  Addis  Ababa  and  Asmara, 
which  we  are  confident  will  also  result  in  better 
development  prospects  for  the  two  countries  and  the 
rest of the region.
The Sahel has also become a priority for us. Italy 
strongly  supports  the  revitalization  of  the  United 
Nations  integrated  strategy  for  the  Sahel  and  is 
particularly  pleased  to  see  that  the  United  Nations 
Support Plan for the Sahel is moving forward. From a 
bilateral point of view, we have expanded our presence 
in  the  region  through  the  opening  of  new  embassies 
in  Niamey,  Conakry  and,  soon,  Ouagadougou.  Italy 
has  also  traditionally  put  African  development  at  the 
forefront  of  its  action  in  major  multilateral  forums. 
During  our  presidency  of  the  Group  of  Seven  in 
2017,  we  focused  on  increasing  collective  support  for 
food  security  and  nutrition  in  sub-Saharan  Africa 
and  dedicated  the  outreach  session  of  the  Group  of 
Seven  summit  specifically  to  the  African  continent. 
In  the  framework  of  the  Group  of  20,  we  have  been 
actively  participating  in  the  Compact  with  Africa,  an 
initiative  launched  by  the  2017  German  presidency, 
which is aimed at promoting private investment in 11 
African countries.
18-32548
17/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
We believe in the need for a stronger involvement 
of the private sector in order for African development 
to  be  sustainable  in  the  long  term.  Already  one  of 
the  largest  investors  in  Africa,  Italy  has  increasingly 
been  engaging  its  private  sector  in  the  creation  of 
multi-stakeholder  partnerships  in  Africa,  especially 
with a view to promoting greater and better access to 
sustainable energy.
I take the opportunity to highlight the fact that the 
second  Italy-Africa  Ministerial  Conference  —  which 
represents  a  structured  framework  of  the  partnership 
established  between  Italy  and  Africa  —  will  take 
place in Rome on 24 and 25 October. That high-level 
meeting,  the  second  of  which  is  now  being  held,  will 
enable  us  to  strengthen  our  dialogue  and  cooperation 
with  Africa  in  many  areas.  It  will  focus  on  Africa’s 
economic growth, our concerted efforts to foster peace 
on the continent, and the promotion of human-capital 
development.  There  will  also  be  the  opportunity  to 
discuss  how  the  Italian  business  model  —  based  on 
small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  —  can  help  in 
developing African entrepreneurship.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  Italy’s 
commitment to move forward its partnership with the 
African  countries  in  pursuing  the  objectives  set  out 
in  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030  Agenda  and  in  making 
further  and  steady  progress  in  the  implementation  of 
the  NEPAD  priorities.  Our  long-term  engagement 
alongside  the  African  continent  is  and  will  remain 
a priority.
Ms.  Guadey  (Ethiopia):  At  the  outset,  allow  me 
to thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
reports  under  this  agenda  item  (A/73/269,  A/73/270 
and A/73/273). I would like to associate my delegation 
with the statements delivered by the representatives of 
Morocco and Egypt on behalf of the Group of African 
States and the Group of 77 and China, respectively.
Since  the  beginning  of  this  century,  Africa  has 
continued 
to  see  encouraging  economic  growth 
resulting  in  the  reduction  of  poverty.  However,  the 
continent  still  faces  multiple  development  challenges 
owing,  inter  alia,  to  the  lack  of  structural  economic 
transformation  and  regional  integration.  As  a  result, 
in  2015,  African  leaders  endorsed  Agenda  2063  with 
an  unwavering  political  commitment  to  building  an 
integrated, prosperous and peaceful continent that plays 
its rightful role at the global level. The African Union’s 
Agenda  2063  demonstrates  the  will  and  readiness  of 
Africans to shape the destiny of the continent by forging 
partnerships with domestic and external partners.
In 
that 
regard,  by  mainstreaming  Agenda 
2063,  particularly  its  first  10-year  plan,  into  their 
development  priorities,  African  countries  have  been 
implementing  national, 
regional  and  continental 
development  initiatives.  The  establishment  of  the 
African  Continental  Free  Trade  Area  is  an  important 
achievement that seeks, inter alia, to promote regional 
integration  by  increasing  the  value  of  intra-African 
trade.  African  countries,  including  Ethiopia,  have 
also  continued  to  mobilize  domestic  resources  so  as 
to  finance  their  development  programmes.  Similarly, 
the implementation plans of the national, regional and 
continental  strategies  include  actions  to  adapt  to  and 
mitigate the negative impacts of climate change.
While implementing Agenda 2063 is primarily the 
responsibility of African countries, we believe that, in 
an interconnected world where we have committed to 
revitalizing global partnerships through internationally 
agreed  development  frameworks,  supporting  Africa 
is the right thing to do in order to demonstrate global 
solidarity  and  cooperation  in  a  practical  way.  In  that 
connection,  as  outlined  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  NEPAD  (A/73/269),  we  appreciate  all  our 
bilateral  and  multilateral  development  partners  for 
their  continued  support  for  the  implementation  of 
Agenda 2063.
In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  cooperation 
between  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations, 
which  is  aimed  at  coordinating  the  follow-up  and 
reporting  mechanisms  of  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030 
Agenda.  We  also  believe  that  the  United  Nations-
African Union cooperation and coordination should be 
further consolidated so as to achieve both development 
frameworks 
and 
regional initiatives.
accordance  with  national 
in 
We  underscore  that  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030 
Agenda have been fashioned in a coherent manner so as 
to  support  Africa’s  sustainable  development.  Africa’s 
efforts  should  therefore  be  supported  by  coordinated 
global actions so that the continent is not left behind. 
Africa  remains  the  litmus  test  for  the  success  of 
the  international  community  in  implementing  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  targets.  Ethiopia 
remains committed to contributing to the realization of 
the vision of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda in line 
with its development priorities.
18/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
Peace  is  an  essential  prerequisite  for  Africa’s 
development. Much has been achieved by the continent 
as  it  works  to  strengthen  the  capacities  for  structural 
conflict prevention in Africa. The operationalization of 
the African Peace and Security Architecture represents 
notable progress towards further strengthening African-
led efforts to prevent conflicts and to address their root 
causes.  Africa  is  indeed  driving  its  own  agenda  and 
rising to meet its peace challenges.
Significant  advancements  has  been  made  with 
regard  to  regional  cooperation  and  integration.  The 
implementation of the African Union’s master road map 
of  practical  steps  for  silencing  the  guns  in  Africa  by 
2020 is also under way. The role of the United Nations 
system, which is focused mainly on supporting peace 
and  security  and  good  governance  and  on  initiatives 
and actions aimed at contributing to addressing the root 
causes of conflict on the continent, is also commendable. 
But  one  crucial  matter  is  the  collaboration  at  various 
levels  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African 
Union  on  the  basis  of  comparative  advantages  in 
working towards a greater unity of purpose.
local  capacities 
Member  States  have  the  primary  responsibility 
for  conflict  prevention,  and  that  prevention  depends 
ultimately  on  their  capacity  to  build  resilience  to 
violent  conflicts,  strengthen 
to 
build  and  sustain  peace,  and  promote  sustainable 
development. To that end, Ethiopia has opened a new 
chapter  in  its  political  and  social  history,  offering 
realistic and genuine possibilities for change that will 
meet  the  hopes  and  expectations  of  our  citizens  and 
ensure  that  those  changes  are  in  line  with  the  new 
political  and  democratic  realities  in  the  country,  with 
the ultimate goal of creating a just, peaceful, equitable 
and sustainable society.
Another highly important and historic development 
is  taking  place  in  our  subregion.  A  real  process  of 
normalization  of  relations  between  and  among  the 
countries of the Horn of Africa has been launched. In 
the light of those important and positive developments, 
it  is  appropriate  and  timely  for  the  United  Nations 
to  seriously  consider  how  to  support  and  maintain 
those efforts.
Let me conclude by underlining that Ethiopia is, and 
will always remain, firmly committed to making every 
possible  effort  towards  creating  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies  in  our  subregion  and  on  the 
African continent.
Mr. Boukadoum (Algeria): The joint debate on the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
in  the  General  Assembly  is,  as  we  all  know,  very 
important  to  the  continent,  and  my  country  cherishes 
this  opportunity  to  share  its  views  with  the  entire 
membership. The NEPAD Agency remains the technical 
arm  of  the  African  Union  (AU),  in  coordination  with 
the  other  structures  of  the  Union  and  with  regional 
economic communities.
I would like to start by saying that, in addition to 
aligning  ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered  by 
the  representatives  of  Egypt  and  Morocco,  speaking 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and the Group 
of African States, respectively, I would like to add the 
following remarks.
We  note  with  deep  appreciation  most  of  the 
findings  and  recommendations  contained  in  the  three 
reports  of  the  Secretary-General,  namely,  the  latest 
report on NEPAD (A/73/269), the report on the causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa (A/73/273), and the 
biennial report on the review of the implementation of 
the commitments made towards Africa’s development 
(A/73/270).
I  first  wish  to  thank  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser on Africa for the dedication and valuable work 
of  Ms.  Bience  Gawanas  and  her  team  in  enhancing 
international  support  for  Africa’s  development.  I 
also  wish  to  commend  the  work  of  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Africa  in  that  regard  and  call  for 
enhanced cooperation with the African Union on those 
and other issues.
Regarding the report entitled “New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development: sixteenth consolidated progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support”, 
we  consider  its  findings  encouraging,  as  it  shows  the 
continued progress being made by African countries in 
the implementation of NEPAD’s priorities, particularly 
in  the  areas  of  infrastructure,  agriculture,  education, 
gender mainstreaming and governance.
With regard to the actions being taken by African 
countries and organizations, we agree that infrastructure 
is  an  enabler  for  the  continent’s  industrialization 
and  regional  integration.  It  is  a  positive  development 
that the NEPAD Agency is hosting the project on the 
implementation of the African Integrated High-Speed 
Railway  Network,  which  aims  to  interconnect  all 
African capitals. There are currently ideas to connect 
18-32548
19/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
South  Africa  with  Algeria  by  rail  —  a  project  on 
which we have already made a start. It is now almost 
possible to drive from Algiers to Lagos as a result of the 
Trans-Sahara Highway project, which aims to connect 
more than 400 million people spread across 6 million 
square  kilometres.  Health  issues  are  also  crucial,  and 
we welcome the fact that 12 of the 55 member States of 
the African Union have reviewed, or are in the process 
of  reviewing,  their  domestic  laws  on  the  regulation 
of  medicines,  in  line  with  the  African  Union’s  model 
law. We hope that more countries will undertake that 
alignment process in the coming years.
We  strongly  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  NEPAD 
Agency continues  to  support  the  efforts  of  African 
countries  to  achieve  gender  parity  in  education  and 
the  implementation  of  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment at the national, regional and subregional 
levels.  Algeria  is  among  the  leaders  of  its  region  on 
that  issue.  As  for  the  response  of  the  international 
community,  I  note  with  some  concern  that  data  on 
official development assistance to Africa in 2017 was 
not available at the time of reporting. Let me insist on 
the importance of having that data in the next NEPAD 
reports.  The  available  data  on  Africa  in  the  report 
shows a 1.3 per cent decrease in official development 
assistance in 2016. We hope that the most recent data 
will be more positive.
We  agree  that,  in  the  light  of  the  persistent 
imbalances in African labour markets and the high youth 
unemployment, African countries must take measures 
to equip students with the requisite skills and training 
needed for today’s labour markets. Youth employment 
is an important component of preventing conflicts.
That brings me to the report on the causes of conflict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa.  That  report  indicates  that  the 
past two decades have witnessed remarkable progress 
and  the  emergence  of  a  new  African  narrative  in  all 
areas.  Africa  is  driving  its  own  agenda  in  rising  to 
meet  the  challenges  it  faces  with  regard  to  peace  and 
development,  and  we  believe  that  that  achievement  is 
certainly the result of the African Union’s outstanding 
efforts. The United Nations and development partners 
have also contributed to that success.
next  report  information  on  what  the  United  Nations 
and  development  partners  are  doing  to  support  the 
implementation  of 
the  Agreement  on  Peace  and 
Reconciliation  in  Mali  emanating  from  the  Algiers 
process.  We  invite  the  Secretary-General  to  shed 
light on that aspect in his next report. We concur that 
conflict prevention is ultimately about the capability of 
Member States to build resilience to violent conflicts. 
The United Nations, the AU and the regional economic 
communities, along with their respective mechanisms, 
play  a  tremendous  role  in  the  efforts  to  develop 
comprehensive 
conflict-prevention 
strategies and tools of countries in that regard.
coherent 
and 
It  is  imperative  for  the  AU,  NEPAD,  the  African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism,  the  African  Development 
Bank  and  the  regional  economic  communities  to 
enhance their work on conflict prevention. The newly 
established United Nations-AU annual conference, the 
desk-to-desk consultations, the Regional Coordination 
Mechanism 
the  United  Nations 
interdepartmental 
force  on  African  affairs 
provide  useful  platforms  for  improving  consultations, 
information exchange and joint planning in our efforts 
to  foster  coordinated  support  for  Africa’s  peace  and 
development priorities.
for  Africa  and 
task 
Regarding  the  third  report,  which  deals  with 
impacts  and  challenges  in  four  thematic  areas  that 
are critical to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063 of the 
African Union, namely, industrialization and regional 
integration,  health,  water  and  sanitation,  climate 
change  and  financing  for  sustainable  development,  I 
would first like to commend Africa’s traditional, new 
and  emerging  development  partners.  We  agree  with 
almost  all  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  in 
the  report.  However,  regarding  the  health,  water  and 
sanitation  recommendations  to  development  partners, 
we wonder why the scaling-up of long-term, predictable 
and  sustainable  health  financing  is  limited  only  to 
South-South  cooperation.  We  believe  that  that  should 
be broadened to all forms of international cooperation. 
On  financing  for  development,  we  echo  the  need  for 
development partners to increase official development 
assistance  to  Africa,  in  line  with  the  scale  of  the 
challenges facing the continent.
We  note  with  appreciation  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund has provided seed funding for some components 
of the United Nations Support Plan for the Sahel (2018-
2022).  We  would  be  very  interested  in  having  in  the 
Thanks  to  its  immense  potential  in  both  human 
and natural resources, Africa is the future of the world. 
Africa is a thriving continent that is on the right track, 
despite  real  and  evident  setbacks  and  uncertainties. 
20/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
Africa  now  needs  to  jump-start  its  development, 
and it has started to do that thanks to many national, 
regional  and  continental  endeavours.  Africa  needs  to 
be respected and viewed as a partner, not as a source 
of  problems  or  a  threat  to  others.  History  shows  that 
the  whole  world  still  has  an  obligation  towards  the 
continent to work to repair its problems. Cooperation, 
mutual respect, genuine partnership and solidarity are 
needed more than ever.
Ms.  Skåre  (Norway):  There  are  many  reasons  to 
be optimistic about the future of Africa. Good progress 
has been made in achieving the goals set out in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063 
of  the  African  Union  (AU).  The  African  Continental 
Free  Trade  Area  holds  promise  for  stimulating 
continued  and  inclusive  growth.  Serious  challenges 
remain,  however,  and  here  I  wish  to  underscore  the 
importance of job creation, particularly for women and 
young people.
We must step up our support for those in the greatest 
need,  and  in  order  to  achieve  our  common  goals  we 
need  to  intensify  our  cooperation  with  our  partners 
in  Africa.  Regional  and  subregional  organizations 
play  a  crucial  role  in  helping  us  to  find  sustainable 
solutions for our shared future. On 1 October, Norway 
opened  its  Permanent  Mission  to  the  African  Union 
in  Addis  Ababa.  Norway  is  honoured  to  support  the 
AU-led training for incoming African members of the 
Security Council and the AU office in New York. We 
see ourselves as a consistent and reliable partner. For 
more  than  10  years,  Norway  has  allocated  1  per  cent 
of  its  gross  national  income  to  official  development 
assistance. Development assistance continues to be an 
important component of our cooperation with countries 
in  Africa.  However,  trade,  private  investments  and 
business  cooperation  have  now  become  increasingly 
prominent  parts  of  our  partnerships,  which  is  a  very 
promising and inspiring trend.
We share with Africa the challenges posed by illicit 
financial flows, and we commend the good work done 
in  that  regard  in  Africa.  We  particularly  commend 
Nigeria  for  the  leading  role  it  has  taken  in  the  fight 
against illicit financial flows, and we are proud to be 
partners in that important work. We share the priority of 
ensuring gender equality. Women’s participation in all 
sectors of society benefits our economies and societies. 
Allow  me  to  especially  congratulate  Ethiopia  on  the 
gender parity in its new Government. That country is 
leading the way.
In  his  twentieth  annual  report  on  the  causes  of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa  (A/73/273),  the 
Secretary-General  advocates 
the  strengthening  of 
capacities  for  structural  conflict  prevention.  We 
align  ourselves  with  that  important  message,  and  we 
welcome the notable progress on the operationalization 
of  the  African  Peace  and  Security  Architecture. 
Norway stands ready to contribute to the prevention of 
conflicts and to addressing their root causes. Through 
our partnerships, Norway will continue to contribute to 
good solutions for our common future.
Mr.  Arrocha  Ruíz  (Panama)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Panama  welcomes  this  debate,  which  constitutes  a 
significant  effort  to  stimulate  effective  dialogue  on 
global cooperation for the development of the African 
continent — a topic that demands the commitment of us 
all. My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China.
I  would  like  particularly  to  emphasize  the  value 
of  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/73/269. 
A/73/270 and A/73/273), which put into perspective the 
progress made by African countries in fulfilling their 
priorities within the framework of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) — a strategy that 
seeks to tackle the great challenges of the region and 
enable  the  full-fledged  sustainable  development  of 
its  population.  We  have  set  ourselves  the  challenge 
of  leaving  no  one  behind.  Achieving  that  requires 
innovative and mutually responsible leadership in order 
to ensure that such well-being is enjoyed by all, fairly 
and  without  discrimination,  aimed  at  attaining  more 
peaceful and inclusive societies.
Panama recognizes the significance of the existing 
link  between  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063:  The 
Africa We Want and the United Nations 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  We  congratulate  the 
efforts of African countries to include the priorities of 
both Agendas in their national development frameworks 
in a coordinated way. We also commend the progress 
made in terms of integration through the establishment 
of  the  African  Continental  Free  Trade  Area,  the 
accomplishment of which also marks the ideal way to 
attain an integrated, peaceful and prosperous region.
The  challenges  that  Africa  continues  to  face 
are  not  insignificant,  namely,  the  need  to  overcome 
armed  conflicts,  consolidate  peace  processes  and 
18-32548
21/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
address issues of human rights, health and education, 
among  others.  However,  we  are  confident  of  Africa’s 
potential to drive its own development so as to ensure 
a safe, prosperous and peaceful continent with strong 
institutions.  We  also  trust  that  the  Africa  Dialogue 
Series,  held  in  recent  days,  yielded  valuable  results 
in  strengthening  the  strategic  alliance  that  must  be 
maintained between the United Nations and the African 
Union. There is no doubt that the role played by regional 
institutions provides a platform of unique importance
in ensuring the success of the development agenda.
Throughout 
the  current  decade,  Africa  has 
striven to maximize the results of its regional agenda, 
which  is  laudable.  We  welcome  the  third  Industrial 
Development Decade for Africa, as well as its efforts 
to  achieve  the  rollback of  malaria  and  to  increase 
agricultural productivity and food security. In addition, 
in  2010,  Africa  marked  the  beginning  of  the  African 
Women’s Decade, and we have seen an increase in the 
participation of women in leadership roles — such as 
Deputy  Secretary-General  Amina  Mohammed and 
Ms.  Graça  Machel,  to  name  only  two.  We  therefore 
commend  all  efforts  to  achieve  gender  equality  and 
the  empowerment  of  women  and  girls.  My  country 
firmly  believes  that  the  participation  of  women  is  a 
fundamental element in attaining the full development 
and progress of any country.
There is no doubt that the international community 
should support, and must continue to support, African 
countries  in  the  socioeconomic  transformation  of 
their continent. To that end, cooperation among States 
and  through  multisectoral  partnerships  that  address 
strategic  areas  prioritized  by  Africans  is  vital  and 
mandatory.  My  country  firmly  believes  in  the  strong 
ties  between  development  and  security,  stressing 
that  there  can  be  no  development  without  peace,  nor 
peace without development. The responsibility of this 
Organization,  and  the  Security  Council  in  particular, 
should be to serve as the fulcrum in the prevention of 
conflicts. For that reason, we commend the efforts of 
African  countries  to  promote  and  foster  constructive 
dialogue  mechanisms  with  all  segments  of  society. 
We urge those countries to continue their work in the 
area of   conflict prevention and to implement initiatives 
aimed at preventing conflicts at all stages by tackling 
their root causes in a timely manner.
Mindful of the fact that the construction of a peaceful 
and safe world is a shared global responsibility, Panama 
has been expanding and strengthening its relations with 
other regions of the world, and, as part of our foreign 
policy priorities, we have launched the so-called Falcon 
Policy, through which we seek to further strengthen our 
political  ties  of  friendship,  fraternity  and  cooperation 
with Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In that regard 
and as a middle-income country offering cooperation, 
we  make  ourselves  available  to  African  countries  to 
serve as a resource for the exchange of knowledge and 
good  practices,  abiding  by  the  criterion  of  solidarity 
and with a view to contributing to the achievement of 
our shared development goals.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  remembering  two 
sons  of  Africa  and  citizens  of  the  world,  namely, 
Nelson Mandela and Kofi Annan, who both dreamt of 
an  African  continent  in  peace  and  with  full-fledged 
development. I reiterate Panama’s support and solidarity 
in contributing to the full and effective implementation 
of the commitments made for the development of Africa 
and its people.
Mr.  Elnour  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his 
(A/73/269, 
A/73/270  and  A/73/273),  as  well  as  the  substantial 
recommendations therein.
reports  before  us 
important 
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
made by the representative of the Kingdom of Morocco 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  and  by  the 
representative of the Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China. I would like to add the 
following points in my national capacity.
the 
includes 
taken  place  during 
We  note  that  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
(A/73/269)  on 
positive 
(NEPAD) 
Development 
developments 
that  have 
the 
reporting period. Among the most important of those 
developments  are  the  inauguration  in  March  of  the 
African Continental Free Trade Area and the continent’s 
economic growth rate of 3.6 per cent in 2017, as well 
as  the  enhanced  cooperation  among  African  States 
to  implement  NEPAD,  particularly  in  the  fields  of 
infrastructure,  agriculture,  gender  mainstreaming, 
the environment and climate change, information and 
communications  technology,  education  and  training, 
among other important fields.
In  that  regard,  we  recall  the  many  developments 
related  to  achieving  the  purposes  and  objectives 
of  NEPAD,  most  importantly  the  recent  positive 
the 
developments 
the  Horn  of  Africa  and 
in 
22/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
normalization  of  relations  among  the  countries  of  the 
region,  as  well  as  the  revitalized  Agreement  on  the 
Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan.  The  Agreement  was  signed  in  Addis  Ababa 
on  12  September  by  the  parties  to  the  conflict  in  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  the 
Sudan in the context of the Intergovernmental Authority 
on  Development  initiative  for  peace  in  South  Sudan. 
The  relevant  stakeholders  have  begun  the  necessary 
preparations to implement the Agreement.
With  regard  to  the  Central  African  Republic, 
efforts are currently under way to hold a new round of 
negotiations among the relevant parties in Khartoum in 
November,  following  the  negotiations  that  took  place 
in  August,  all  within  the  framework  of  the  African 
Union  (AU)  initiative  for  peace  and  reconciliation  in 
the  Central  African  Republic.  All  those  efforts  are 
being made in the broader context of the AU initiative 
to silence the guns across Africa by 2020. That would 
enable  African  countries  to  dedicate  their  financial 
and  human  resources  to  achieving  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063 of the 
African Union, to which we aspire.
We  note  the  important  information  contained  in 
the Secretary-General’s report on NEPAD to the effect 
that the African continent is in need of $130 billion to 
$170  billion  annually  for  investment  in  infrastructure 
projects.  However,  the  current  projects  represent  just 
5 per cent of Africa’s overall investment needs, which 
should prompt us to step up international and regional 
efforts to address that large gap in order to ensure that 
no one is left behind in terms of development.
We also note that, despite the significant economic 
growth rate realized in Africa, which in the report of 
the Secretary-General is estimated to be approximately 
3.6 per cent in 2017, Africa continues to face multiple 
challenges,  including  poverty,  youth  unemployment, 
income disparity among African communities, climate 
change,  debt  burden  and  population  growth.  That 
array  of  challenges  is  hampering  the  development  of 
the continent.
like 
to  recall 
the 
We  would 
importance  of 
supporting the efforts of the AU and regional economic 
communities  to  achieve  economic  integration  on  the 
continent, strengthen commercial trade and investment 
among  African  States,  and  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
AU  in  achieving  peace  and  security  in  Africa,  in  the 
context of attaining African solutions to the continent’s 
problems. In that regard, we commend the AU initiative 
to establish a fund for supporting peace and security, 
which  aims  to  provide  25  per  cent  of  the  budgets  for 
African peacekeeping operations.
We  stress  the  importance  of  enhancing  African 
ownership and leadership of the efforts to address the 
challenges  facing  the  continent.  It  is  also  important 
to  strengthen  coordination  between  the  AU  and  other 
partners,  States  and  organizations,  as  well  as  to 
promote  partnership  between  the  AU  and  the  private 
sector, civil society, academics, the media and Africans 
in diaspora, who, as a group, constitute the fifth region 
of the African continent. We also support the reforms 
undertaken  by  the  AU,  as  well  as  the  partnership 
between  the  AU  and  the  United  Nations  in  the  areas 
of  peace,  security  and  development.  We  call  for  the 
implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development  and  for  investing  in  conflict  resolution 
in  Africa.  It  is  important  to  strengthen  coordination 
between the United Nations and its agencies that work 
on  the  continent,  while  seeking  to  promote  capacity-
building,  technology  transfer  and  the  exchange  of 
experiences and best development practices.
To  conclude,  my  delegation  underlines  that  the 
international community has significant vital interests 
in  Africa,  and  that  supporting  the  continent’s  efforts 
to  achieve  sustainable  development  and  fulfil  the 
2030  Agenda  would  reap  benefits  for  all.  We  stress 
partnerships  for  the  future,  which  would  benefit 
everyone in the areas of investments, trade exchange, 
achieving  peace  and  security,  fighting  terrorism, 
combating  drugs,  terrorism  and 
illicit  migration, 
transnational crime, sustainable environment and other 
crucial areas. We all can accomplish those noble goals if 
we work, cooperate and coordinate together according 
to a clear vision.
Mr.  Hoshino  (Japan):  There 
is  no  denying 
that  Japan  finds  itself  geographically  far  from  the 
African  continent.  However,  in  today’s  globalized 
world, irrespective of our location, we share common 
challenges,  common  successes  and  a  common  future. 
Therefore, Africa’s peace and prosperity are our peace 
and prosperity, and our peace and prosperity are those 
of  Africa.  In  that  spirit,  in  1993,  the  Government  of 
Japan launched the Tokyo International Conference on 
African Development (TICAD).
18-32548
23/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
TICAD  is  a  process  realized  through  the  active 
participation of African countries, as well as a strong 
partnership with the United Nations, represented by the 
United Nations Office of the Special Adviser on Africa 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme, 
the  African  Union  Commission  and  the  World  Bank. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
sincere appreciation for that strong partnership, without 
which TICAD could not succeed.
Inclusiveness,  a  focus  on  Africa’s  ownership  and 
strong  follow-up  mechanisms  to  ensure  the  concrete 
implementation of commitments are the three notable 
features of TICAD. The TICAD process is also aligned 
with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  through  its 
focus  on  the  peace,  development  and  humanitarian 
nexus, as well as its people-centred and human security 
approach.  We  believe  that  TICAD  makes  significant 
contributions to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
and Agenda 2063.
At  the  latest  TICAD  ministerial  meeting  held 
in  Tokyo  earlier  this  month,  it  was  agreed  that 
international support should comply with international 
standards,  taking  into  account  the  sustainability  of 
the debt of the recipient countries. That echoes a point 
contained  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled 
“New Partnership for Africa’s Development: sixteenth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation  and 
international  support”  (A/73/269).  In  addition,  the 
participants agreed on the need for private investment 
in order to diversify Africa’s economies, in particular its 
industries, and to develop high-quality infrastructure. 
They  also  agreed  on  the  importance  of  realizing 
universal health coverage. Based on the outcomes of the 
TICAD ministerial meeting, Japan intends to accelerate 
its preparations to host the next TICAD summit, known 
as  TICAD  VII,  which  will  take  place  in  August  next 
year. I urge delegations to mark their calendars.
This  week,  we  appreciated  the  launch  of  the 
Africa  Dialogue  Series  2018  as  an  opportunity  to 
deepen discussions on the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda  and  Agenda  2063  and  on  operationalizing 
the  frameworks  for  partnerships  between  the  United 
Nations and the African Union. It has also provided us 
with invaluable inspiration for TICAD VII.
We  look  forward  to  further  consolidating  our 
partnerships with African countries, international and 
subregional  organizations  and  all  other  stakeholders, 
including civil society and the private sector, in order 
realize  the  Africa  we  want,  which  is  a  necessary 
component of the world we all want.
Mrs.  Pobee  (Ghana):  My  delegation  thanks  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  excellent  reports  he  has 
submitted under this agenda item (А/73/269, А/73/270 
and А/73/273), and commends the Special Adviser on 
Africa  and  her  team  for  the  successful  launch  of  the 
Africa  Dialogue  Series  and  for  facilitating  the  rich 
exchange of views on the critical issues of concern to 
Africa over the past two days.
Ghana  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered 
by the representatives of Morocco and Egypt on behalf 
of the Group of African States and the Group of 77 and 
China, respectively.
Africa’s  development  priorities  have  been  clearly 
expressed  in  several  continental  and  global  landmark 
agreements, 
the  most  significant  being  Agenda 
2063:  The  Africa  We  Want,  a  strategic  vision  for 
transformative  development  in  Africa,  and  the  10-
year implementation plan (2014-2023), which hold the 
promise of contributing to the enhancement of inclusive 
economic and social progress. The emphasis of Agenda 
2063  on  agriculture  development, 
infrastructure 
development and industrialization will greatly facilitate 
job creation and poverty eradication on the continent.
Equally  transformative  is  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  which  derives  many  of  its 
goals  and  targets  from  the  African  Union’s  Agenda 
2063 and which, together with the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda  of  the  Third  International  Conference  on 
Financing for Development, provides a comprehensive 
framework for action in the spirit of global partnership 
and solidarity.
My  delegation  is  particularly  pleased  that,  in  the 
past  year,  the  African  Union  has  concluded  several 
major  continental  agreements,  including  the  Africa 
Continental  Free  Trade  Area,  the  Single  African  Air 
Transport  Market  and  the  continent-wide  protocol  on 
the free movement of people, all of which are important 
pillars of Agenda 2063 and a sign of the collective resolve 
and determination of Africans to create the conditions 
necessary for the realization of the continental vision of 
socioeconomic transformation.
Africa  has  demonstrated 
the 
development  of  the  continent  and  is  charting  the 
continent’s path to prosperity. The sense of enterprise, 
leadership 
in 
24/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
creativity, innovation and hard work needed to engineer 
such  a  transition  are  already  at  work,  and  what  is 
required  is  coherence  and  complementarity  among 
global, continental, regional, national and local efforts 
for effective implementation.
In that regard, my delegation welcomes the renewed 
efforts of the Planning and Coordinating Agency of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
to  strengthen  national  and  regional  capacities  to 
coordinate the implementation of the Agendas. We also 
wish to underscore the important work of the African 
Peer Review Mechanism in fostering good governance 
as an enabler of growth and sustainable development.
The  African  Union-United  Nations  Framework 
for  the  Implementation  of  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  adopted  in 
January,  is  a  significant  development.  Similarly,  the 
Joint  United  Nations-African  Union  Framework  for 
an  Enhanced  Partnership  in  Peace  and  Security  will 
promote sustaining peace as an important prerequisite 
for  sustainable  development.  We  urge  continued 
collaboration  on  the  implementation  of  strategies 
and  programmes  that  promote  the  comprehensive 
development of Africa.
As  rightly  indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report on NEPAD, global economic conditions have a 
considerable  bearing  on  the  performance  of  African 
economies and, consequently, on the pace of progress in 
the implementation of the Agendas. Building resilience 
will be necessary in order to sustain our efforts.
Financing is a critical element for the achievement 
of  development.  As  African  countries  redouble  their 
efforts  to  mobilize  domestic  resources,  we  call  on 
partners to fulfil their official development assistance 
commitments  to  complement  those  efforts.  We  also 
call  for  urgent  international  action  to  help  curb  illicit 
financial flows from Africa.
We  take  note  that,  as  foreign  direct  investment 
(FDI) flows to Africa have continued their downward 
trend, Africa’s new and emerging development partners 
have made significant commitments in terms of FDI and 
other support, ranging from trade in natural resources 
to  agriculture  and  construction.  We  welcome  those 
partnerships,  together  with  the  launch  of  the  Group 
of  20  Africa  Partnership  in  July  2017,  and  hope  that 
cooperation  with  the  continent  will  be  strengthened, 
with  Agenda  2063  as 
framework. 
While  commending  our  partners  for  those  tangible 
its  guiding 
contributions,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of  the 
role  of  the  private  sector,  as  well  as  that  of  public-
private  partnerships,  in  meeting  the  challenges  of 
sustainable development.
Both the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  recognize 
the  importance  of  peace  and  stability,  not  only  as 
critical  enablers  but  also  as  important  components  of 
sustainable  development.  In  line  with  that  aspiration, 
Africa has also continued, with the support of the United 
Nations and development partners, to deal with current 
conflicts and to address emerging challenges to peace, 
security and development, such as the rise of terrorism 
and violent extremism, as well as the growing number 
of migrants, refugees and internally displaced persons.
We reaffirm that sustaining peace is a particularly 
poignant goal in Africa, and the mutually reinforcing 
and interlinked pillars of peace, security, development 
and  human  rights  must  be  reinforced  in  order  to  find 
lasting solutions to conflicts on the African continent. 
Tackling  the  root  causes  of  conflict,  such  as  youth 
unemployment,  inequality  and  economic  and  social 
exclusion,  including  through  the  African  Peace  and 
Security  Architecture  and  the  African  Governance 
Architecture, will be critical to Africa’s transformation.
The  role  of  women  in  sustainable  development 
cannot  be  overestimated.  Equally  important  is  their 
indispensable  role  in  peacebuilding  and  sustaining 
peace.  For 
the 
collaboration  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African  Union  aimed  at  enhancing  women’s  political 
leadership  and  participation  in  conflict  prevention, 
resolution and peacebuilding through the support given 
to the African Women Leaders Network.
reason,  Ghana  welcomes 
that 
Deliberate  and  targeted  policies  must  be  adopted 
by  Governments  with  the  goal  of  seeking  ways  to 
promote  the  inclusive  participation  of  young  people 
in development. The continent is a youthful one. That 
makes it imperative to include young people in Africa’s 
efforts in a meaningful way, if we mean to achieve the 
goals and targets of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda.
in 
French):  I  would  like  to  begin  by  associating  myself 
with the statements delivered by the representatives of 
Egypt, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and of 
Morocco, on behalf of the Group of African States.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
18-32548
25/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General on the three reports (A/73/269, A/73/270 and 
A/73/273)  submitted  under  this  agenda  item.  In  those 
reports, the Secretary-General presents all the activities 
carried  out  by  African  countries,  their  development 
partners and the United Nations system. He also focuses 
on conflicts and the need for peace.
finalization, 
resource  mobilization 
We  commend  all  those  contributions,  and  we 
thank  Africa’s  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners  for 
their  much-appreciated  efforts.  Nevertheless,  the  fact 
remains  that,  owing  to  problems  with  coordination, 
project 
and 
withdrawal, those efforts have not always produced the 
expected results. We must therefore redouble our efforts 
in a number of key areas in the future. That is why we 
endorse 
the  Secretary-General’s  recommendations, 
which  highlight  a  fitting  vision  for  sustainable 
progress  in  Africa,  with  a  focus  on  the  following 
areas:  sustainable  and  inclusive  economic  growth 
based  on  industry,  trade  and  regional  integration;  the 
development  of  infrastructure;  investment  in  human 
capital  through  measures  in  the  fields  of  health  care, 
science, technology and innovation, social development, 
employment, job creation, social protection, migration 
and  mobility;  action  to  promote  women,  gender 
equality  and  youth  empowerment;  humanitarian 
issues and disaster risk management; the environment, 
urbanization  and  population;  and,  lastly,  advocacy, 
information, communication and culture.
those 
Having  embraced 
strategic  guidelines 
and  despite  an  unfavourable  economic  situation,  the 
Government  of  my  country,  through  its  strategic 
document  for  growth  and  employment,  continues  to 
create favourable conditions so that it can achieve the 
desired goals in each of those areas. We have therefore 
focused  on  entrepreneurship  and  the  transformation 
of  the  informal  sector,  which  provide  niches  for  the 
empowerment of women and young people, with a view 
to fully integrating those groups into society.
A  bank  for  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises 
has  been  established.  Further  measures  involve  the 
efficient use of domestic resources through bonds, an 
approach  that  generates  domestic  savings  to  finance 
growth-generating  projects.  An  investment-friendly 
code and framework conducive to a transparent, stable 
and predictable business climate are in place in order 
to  attract  foreign  direct  investment,  which  is  seen 
as  one  of  the  cornerstones  of  strong,  sustainable  and 
inclusive economic growth. Cameroon’s health system 
has been considerably strengthened, and the transition 
to universal health coverage is well under way.
for 
In recent years and in accordance with the Malabo 
Declaration  on  Nutrition  Security 
Inclusive 
Economic  Growth  and  Sustainable  Development  in 
Africa,  the  Government  of  Cameroon  has  committed 
to  achieving  the  goal  of  food  security  and  nutrition. 
However, my delegation regrets to note that that objective 
is seriously threatened by desertification, drought, the 
terrorism of the Boko Haram sect and instability in the 
subregion, which requires an economically and socially 
burdensome management of refugees.
With regard to the multilateral and comprehensive 
approach  to  addressing  common  challenges,  I  would 
like to point out that Cameroon is actively participating 
in  the  promotion  and  strengthening  of  trade  and 
regional  integration  through  numerous  bodies,  such 
as  the  Central  African  Economic  and  Monetary 
Community,  the  Economic  Community  of  Central 
African States, the Niger Basin Authority and the Lake 
Chad  Basin  Commission.  It  has  joined  the  agreement 
establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area, 
which seeks to increase commercial trade in Africa. It 
participates in the implementation of numerous local and 
regional infrastructures that seek to strengthen regional 
and  continental  integration,  such  as  a  project —  now 
well under way — to build a railway linking the capital 
of Chad to the Cameroonian ports of Douala and Kribi. 
Those  projects,  currently  at  an  advanced  stage,  are 
expected to increase trade among the countries of the 
subregion. Much of the road infrastructure linking the 
Cameroonian  capital  to  the  capitals  or  large  cities  of 
neighbouring countries, which is either operational or 
in the process of becoming so, will considerably boost 
subregional integration.
the 
Cameroon 
is  concerned  about 
increasing 
burden  of  African  debt  and  the  downward  trend  in 
official  development  assistance.  In  that  context,  we 
can  barely  implement  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  in  Africa.  My  country  therefore  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  strengthen  the  capacities 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) and to respect fair and equitable rules so that 
African  countries  can  access  international  trade  and 
the technologies needed for sustainable development.
We  cannot  emphasize  enough 
that  conflict 
prevention, management and resolution, as well as post-
conflict peacebuilding, are crucial for the achievement 
26/28 
18-32548
19/10/2018 
A/73/PV.23
to 
of NEPAD’s objectives with regard to development. Let 
us therefore address the root causes of conflict in Africa 
in  order  to  enable  the  United  Nations  Peacebuilding 
Commission 
fully  support  African  countries 
emerging  from  conflict.  There  is  a  saying  in  Africa 
that where peace is absent, destitution takes root, and 
where there is destitution, endless quarrels arise. There 
is  therefore  a  cycle  linking  peace  and  development. 
In  other  words,  while  we  certainly  cannot  eat  peace, 
we  also  cannot  eat  when  there  is  no  peace.  As  such, 
substantial  resources  should  be  made  available  to  the 
Secretary-General for those purposes.
It has been 16 years since Africa presented the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  to  the  world. 
The  international  community  embraced  that  new 
partnership with enthusiasm. It is on that basis that our 
continent  built  the  new  initiative  for  the  development 
of our continent by 2063 — which was endorsed by the 
Assembly  —  along  with  its  programmes  for  the  first 
10 years. It is therefore clear that Africa knows what it 
wants, that it knows where it is going and that we know 
what must be done. We therefore call on all parties to 
respect their commitments.
the  Organization’s  contributions 
The  United  Nations,  for  its  part,  must  strengthen 
its  agencies  responsible  for 
the  coordination  of 
implementing 
to 
that  programme.  In  particular,  they  must  strengthen 
the capacities of the Office of the Special Adviser on 
Africa, as well as those of the Economic Commission 
for Africa and its subregional structures, which play an 
important role in coordinating, planning — including 
strategic  planning  —  and  programming,  as  well  as 
in  mobilizing  resources  and  international  opinion  in 
support of Africa.
Mr. Bin Momen (Bangladesh): My delegation aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of Egypt on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. We 
would also like to make some additional remarks in our 
national capacity.
the  development  scenario 
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports 
in  Africa 
portraying 
(A/73/269,  A/73/270  and  A/73/273).  While 
they 
generate optimism regarding the overall rebound of the 
African economy in 2017, one cannot miss their words 
of  caution  regarding  Africa’s  persistent  development 
challenges,  for  example,  debt  servicing,  structural 
impediments,  factors  causing  environmental  stress 
such as desertification, job creation and the investment 
deficit,  among  others.  The  international  community, 
and  the  United  Nations  in  particular,  must  pay  due 
attention to those areas.
As  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Least  Developed 
Countries  for  the  past  three  years,  we  have  been 
particularly  conscious  of  the  interests  of  the  African 
least  developed  countries.  We  have  tried  to  highlight 
the  specific  challenges  that  they  face,  such  as  in  the 
sectors  of  structural  transformation,  information  and 
communications technology infrastructure, social and 
health issues, resilience-building and crisis management 
and  mitigation,  inter  alia.  We  have  also  pressed  for 
tailored  support  for  the  conflict-ridden  countries  in 
Africa.  Our  efforts  to  establish  the  Technology  Bank 
are expected to go a long way towards addressing the 
technological  requirements  of  and  gaps  facing  the 
African least developed countries.
to 
transform 
Bangladesh  fully  appreciates  Africa’s  emerging 
potential 
the  world’s  political  and 
socioeconomic 
landscape.  The  growing  role  and 
contribution  of  African  countries  to  the  global  trade 
and economy is also gratifying. We endorse the African 
Union’s Agenda 2063 and would be happy to contribute 
to the Agenda in any way we can. Since many of our 
development challenges are similar to those of African 
countries,  we  can  complement  each  other  by  sharing 
our  development  experiences  and  best  practices. 
Bangladesh can help to realize the full potential of the 
demographic dividend arising on the African continent 
with  its  huge  young  population.  Here  at  the  United 
Nations,  we  have  consistently  supported  resolutions 
on Africa.
In  the  negotiations  leading  to  the  global  compact 
for  safe,  regular  and  orderly  migration,  Bangladesh 
is  one  of  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Friends  of  Migration 
Group, coordinating closely with the Group of African 
States, as our positions are often convergent. The same 
is  true  for  many  issues  related  to  climate  change.  As 
one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change, 
Bangladesh realizes the challenges facing many African 
countries and can contribute to building resilience and 
to disaster-risk reduction efforts.
The  United  Nations  Office 
for  South-South 
Cooperation is a good platform for Africa’s development. 
We will continue to work with the Office to cooperate 
further to that end.
As one of the leading troop- and police-contributing 
countries  with  extensive  experience  in  peacekeeping, 
18-32548
27/28
A/73/PV.23 
19/10/2018
particularly  in  Africa,  Bangladesh  will  continue  to 
contribute  to  improving  Africa’s  peace  and  security 
situation. Our peacekeepers have shed blood for their 
African  brothers  in  the  cause  of  peace.  In  almost  all 
of the African countries where our peacekeepers have 
been  deployed,  they  were  able  to  leave  a  deep  and 
positive  mark  on  the  society  through  their  dedicated 
service and efforts. After all, peacekeeping is not only 
about the enforcement of peace but also about winning 
the hearts and minds of the host population.
On  the  bilateral  front,  despite  our  geographical 
remoteness,  we  are  continuously  expanding  our 
diplomatic  outreach  to  the  African  continent.  In 
2016  alone,  we  opened  as  many  as  three  full-fledged 
diplomatic missions in Africa, including one in Addis 
Ababa,  in  order  to  increase  our  engagement  with  the 
African  Union.  Our  teachers,  doctors,  engineers  and 
other  professionals  contribute  to  the  socioeconomic 
development  of  many  African  countries.  There  is 
a  huge  opportunity  for  investment  cooperation  in 
health,  agriculture,  particularly  contract  farming,  and 
education-related areas within a win-win framework.
We  are  sharing  our  success  in  e-governance 
with  African  countries.  In  Somalia,  for  example, 
we  are  working  on  innovation  in  the  delivery  of 
public  services  and  in  Ethiopia,  on  the  role  that 
information and communications technology can play 
in the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals.  We  are  also  in  talks  with  some  other  African 
countries.  Those  are  replicable  examples  of  South-
South cooperation. A number of our non-governmental 
organizations 
the  Bangladesh 
Rural  Advancment  Committee,  one  of  the  largest 
anti-poverty  NGOs 
the  world,  are  working 
in  many  African  countries  in  public  health  and 
including 
(NGOs), 
in 
socioeconomic  improvement  programmes,  using  our 
home-grown approach.
Bangladesh  has  made  significant  progress  in 
combating malaria. We have seen a reduction of more 
than  50  per  cent  in  the  number  of  malaria  cases  and 
54  per  cent  in  related  deaths  since  2010.  However, 
many  people  are  still  at  risk  of  the  disease.  We  have 
therefore revised our strategy so as to ensure alignment 
with the World Health Organization’s Global Technical 
Strategy for Malaria 2016-2030. That will also greatly 
contribute towards overall national development and the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  particularly 
SDG target 3.3 on ending the malaria epidemic. We are 
happy to share our experiences and best practices with 
Africa in terms of capacity-building and the prevention 
and  management  of  malaria.  We  hope  that  a  strong, 
well-organized multi-stakeholder partnership can help 
to  deliver  broad  health  benefits  to  African  countries, 
including the reduction of malaria in sub-Saharan and 
other parts of Africa.
We  look  forward  to  the  continued  strengthening 
of  our  partnership  with  Africa.  We  also  join  the 
international  community  in  its  efforts  to  ensure  and 
promote peace, security and sustainable development in 
Africa. We must bear in mind that the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  will  remain  elusive  without 
Africa’s development.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  68  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b), and agenda item 13.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
28/28 
18-32548
