United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
53rd plenary meeting
Friday, 14 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 75
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/392, 
A/73/392/Corr.1 and A/73/392/Corr.2)
(a) Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/78, 
A/73/170 and A/73/343)
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.18/Rev.1, A/73/L.51, 
A/73/L.53 and A/73/L.61)
Draft amendments (A/73/L.64 and A/73/L.65)
(b) Assistance to the Palestinian people
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/84 and 
A/73/84/Corr.1)
(c) Special economic assistance to individual 
countries or regions
The Acting President: I will now make a statement 
on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés.
ago, 
“Twenty-seven  years 
the  General 
Assembly  adopted  resolution  46/182,  on 
the 
strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
emergency assistance of the United Nations. Since 
then, we have met in this Hall every year to discuss 
how to strengthen the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations. 
And every year when we meet we are forced to note 
that more and more people are affected by conflict, 
violence or natural disasters and therefore require 
humanitarian assistance. This time is no exception. 
At the end of 2017, another record was reached in 
terms  of  humanitarian  needs,  with  135.7  million 
people in need of humanitarian assistance.
“We  are  all  responsible  for  ensuring  that 
people affected by conflicts, violence and natural 
disasters  are  assisted  and  protected.  In  2017,  the 
funding needed to provide humanitarian assistance 
to  the  135.7  million  people  affected  by  conflicts 
or natural disasters reached a record $23.5 billion. 
We  are  all  responsible  for  ensuring  that  funding 
is  made  available  to  the  United  Nations  agencies 
and  other  humanitarian  organizations  that  deliver 
life-saving support.
“At  the  end  of  2017,  68.5  million  people 
were  forcibly  displaced  worldwide  as  a  result  of 
persecution,  conflict  or  generalized  violence. 
While  it  may  appear  to  be  common  sense  that 
people  affected  by  conflict  require  humanitarian 
assistance — whether they are obliged to flee their 
homes,  are  trapped  under  siege,  are  wounded  or 
simply happen to fall sick when a conflict is taking 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-43824 (E)
*1843824*

A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
place —  unfortunately  that  is  not  the  case,  as  we 
all  well  know.  Civilians  continue  to  be  targeted, 
in  clear  violation  of  international  humanitarian 
law.  Hospitals  continue 
to  be  bombed  and 
humanitarian assistance continues to be hindered. 
That is unacceptable. Not only is it unacceptable, 
but  targeting  medical  facilities  and  humanitarian 
personnel and hindering the delivery of life-saving 
humanitarian  assistance  are  also  violations 
of  international  humanitarian  law.  And  we  as 
Member States are all responsible for ensuring that 
international humanitarian law is respected.
“If  providing  humanitarian  assistance 
to 
populations affected by conflict, violence or natural 
disasters is necessary, our role does not end there. 
We also have to work together to prevent conflict, 
enhance  the  mediation  of  ongoing  conflicts  and 
prevent  the  catastrophic  consequences  of  natural 
disasters by enhancing disaster preparedness. We 
also  have  to  work  on  tackling  the  root  causes  of 
both  conflicts  and  natural  disasters.  We  must 
address  the  root  causes  of  poverty  and  ensure 
respect  for  human  rights  and  good  governance. 
We  must  prevent  the  effects  that  climate  change 
has both on conflicts and on natural disasters. We 
cannot  assume  that  all  is  well  when  the  evidence 
begs to differ. The international multilateral system 
requires that we act together.
“We are not here to reinvent the wheel. What 
I  have  said  is  neither  original  nor  new.  Previous 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  have  made 
similar remarks, and I fear that future ones will have 
to do the same. Looking for long-term solutions is 
clearly key, and I strongly believe that the General 
Assembly,  the  parliament  of  humankind,  can 
indeed change the pattern. We can provide disaster 
relief faster and more efficiently; we can strengthen 
conflict mediation skills in regions that are at risk; 
and we can do more to ensure that people affected 
by  armed  conflict  and  violence  are  assisted  and 
protected  and  that  those  providing  humanitarian 
assistance  can  do  their  job  without  obstacles.  We 
must  assist  and  protect  people  when  they  are  at 
their most vulnerable.
“We  have  had  this  same  conversation  far  too 
many times. Let us change it.”
I now give the floor to the representative of Egypt 
to introduce draft resolution A/73/L.18/Rev.1.
Mr. Edrees (Egypt): On behalf of the Group of 77 
and China, I have the honour to introduce to the General 
Assembly  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “International 
cooperation  on  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  field 
of  natural  disasters,  from  relief  to  development”,  as 
contained in document A/73/L.18/Rev.1.
As  we  present  this  draft  resolution  this  year,  the 
Group  of  77  and  China  continues  to  reaffirm  the 
importance  of  international  cooperation  in  providing 
assistance to countries and peoples affected by natural 
disasters, 
in  accordance  with  resolution  46/182, 
as  well  of  the  guiding  principles  for  strengthening 
the  coordination  of  United  Nations  emergency 
humanitarian assistance, while also recognizing that the 
States that are affected have the primary responsibility 
for 
initiation,  organization,  coordination  and 
implementation  of  humanitarian  assistance  within 
their territories.
the 
relationship  between  emergency 
The  draft  resolution  continues  to  recognize  the 
clear 
response, 
rehabilitation  and  development,  and  reaffirms  that 
in  order  to  ensure  a  smooth  transition  from  relief  to 
rehabilitation and development, emergency assistance 
must  be  provided  in  ways  that  will  be  supportive  of 
short- and medium-term recovery, leading to long-term 
development. It further responds to the growing scale 
and  scope  of  natural  disasters,  stressing  our  need  to 
redouble  our  efforts  in  order  to  build  the  capacities 
and  capabilities  of  our  communities  and  enhance 
their resilience and engagement in order to respond to 
natural disasters.
Throughout,  the  draft  resolution  underlines  the 
importance  of  taking  early  action  with  a  view  to 
minimizing  and  mitigating  the  consequences  that 
might  result  from  natural  disasters.  It  encourages 
the  increased  efforts  and  engagement  of  the  private 
sector  in  disaster  risk-management  activities  and 
humanitarian assistance. It also encourages us to step 
up  our  efforts  to  mobilize  predictable  and  multi-year 
support to work collectively towards common results in 
order to reduce needs, risk and vulnerability, as well as 
to  mobilize  additional  resources  through  anticipatory 
approaches  to  financing.  It  attaches  great  importance 
to  addressing  the  full  spectrum  of  natural  disasters, 
from  early  action  to  reconstruction  efforts,  with  the 
goal of better rebuilding our communities and leading 
to the achievement of sustainable development.
2/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
Finally,  the  Group  would  like  to  thank  the 
delegation of Morocco for coordinating the negotiations 
of  this  draft  resolution  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and  China.  We  also  appreciate  the  constructive  spirit 
and  invaluable  support  shown  by  all  Member  States 
in arriving at a final text. It is our hope that the draft 
resolution will be adopted by consensus once again at 
this seventy-third session of the General Assembly.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Austria to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.51.
Mr. Kickert (Austria): On behalf of the European 
Union  and  its  member  States,  I  have  the  honour  to 
present a draft resolution entitled “Safety and security 
of  humanitarian  personnel  and  protection  of  United 
Nations personnel”, contained in document A/73/L.51.
The number and magnitude of humanitarian crises 
have grown exponentially in recent years. The Global 
Humanitarian  Overview 2019  estimates  that  nearly 
132  million  people  worldwide  need  humanitarian 
assistance  and  protection.  At  the  same  time,  aid 
workers have increasingly come under attack. The high 
purpose of their actions no longer protects them. Last 
year, at least 139 aid workers were killed in the line of 
duty. But humanitarian work depends on those who do 
it.  Without  humanitarian  workers,  no  aid  is  possible. 
The equation is simple, yet that simplicity conceals the 
most  complex  and  difficult  task  facing  humanitarian 
organizations 
in 
need  while  guaranteeing  the  safety  of  humanitarian 
personnel.  The 
international  community  has  an 
obligation to those who put their lives at risk to make 
a  difference  on  the  ground.  Our  speeches  would  be 
hollow were it not for the courageous and valiant people 
in the field who put strategies into action. We have a 
collective responsibility to protect United Nations and 
humanitarian personnel and to hold accountable those 
who put their security at risk.
that  of  reaching  people 
today, 
In  this  year’s  draft  resolution,  we  continue  to 
recognize  the  diverse  and  multifaceted  threats  and 
different exposure that female and male humanitarian 
personnel,  including  workers  in  non-governmental 
organizations,  medical 
and  United 
Nations  and  associated  personnel,  face  in  a  generally 
deteriorating  global 
environment.  We 
further encourage and support all efforts to build and 
strengthen  partnerships,  information-sharing  and  risk 
assessment among the United Nations, its humanitarian 
personnel 
security 
agencies and other humanitarian organizations. Strong 
cooperation  between  actors  working  under  the  same 
principles  has  the  potential  to  spur  strong  collective 
action towards the prevention and mitigation of security 
issues in crisis situations.
This year’s text further articulates the vulnerability 
of  locally  recruited  personnel  with  regard  to  their 
working environment and welcomes the approval of a 
system-wide policy on the security of locally recruited 
personnel. It also expresses concern about the increase 
in the number of sexual assaults against both men and 
women and recalls the crucial role of investigations in 
the prevention of acts against the safety and security of 
humanitarian personnel.
improvements  of 
Last  but  not  least,  through  this  draft  resolution 
the 
we  encourage  and  express  appreciation  for 
continued 
the  United  Nations 
security management system, such as the adoption of 
a  registry  for  victims  of  violence.  The  protection  of 
180,000 United Nations personnel across the planet is 
an extremely daunting task. We must all commend the 
work of the Department of Safety and Security (DSS), 
under  the  guidance  of  Under-Secretary-General  Peter 
Drennan, on the protection of United Nations personnel 
and  associated  personnel.  We  have  to  remember  that 
no  effective  action  is  possible  unless  humanitarian 
personnel are allowed to go about their work and their 
safety is actively ensured. The draft resolution reiterates 
the  strong  mandate  and  additional  guidance  from  the 
General  Assembly  for  the  essential  work  performed 
by DSS and the United Nations security management 
system more broadly.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
firmly  believe  that  it  is  our  duty  to  acknowledge  the 
commitment  of  humanitarians  and  of  United  Nations 
and  associated  personnel,  as  well  as  to  support  their 
work and do everything in our power to further enhance 
their  safety  and  security.  I  want  to  warmly  thank  the 
many delegations that took part in these consultations, 
particularly  those  sponsoring  the  draft  resolution,  for 
their  constructive  engagement  in  agreeing  on  a  text 
that  demonstrates  our  shared  concern  for  the  safety 
and  security  of  humanitarian  and  United  Nations 
personnel. I would also like to thank the Department 
of Safety and Security and the United Nations Office 
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs for their 
valuable support, which informed our discussions.
18-43824
3/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
This draft resolution has been and should remain 
genuinely  consensual,  as  a  testimony  to  our  shared 
humanity. We owe it to the people who risk their own 
lives on a daily basis in order to save the lives of others. 
They need the collective, unequivocal and unqualified 
support of the entire General Assembly.
Additionally,  I  want  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
we  have  also  submitted  the  annual  draft  resolution 
entitled  “Assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people”,  under 
sub-item (b) of agenda item 75. It has been uploaded to 
the e-deleGATE portal and is open for sponsorship, and 
we expect action to be taken on it next week.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Argentina  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/73/L.53.
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish): I have the honour to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.53,  entitled  “White  Helmets  Commission: 
participation of volunteers in the activities of the United 
Nations in the field of humanitarian relief, rehabilitation 
and technical cooperation for development”.
Since the creation of the White Helmets Commission 
in  1994,  approximately  300  humanitarian  assistance 
missions have been carried out in 71 countries across 
every continent in response to requests from States in 
need or to international humanitarian appeals, and they 
are  always  guided  by  the  principles  of  independence, 
neutrality, humanitarianism and impartiality.
The  White  Helmets  Commission  is  made  up 
entirely of civilians and relies on a body of national and 
international  volunteers  who  develop  their  activities 
on the basis of cooperation, solidarity and community 
participation. It is based on a bilateral and multilateral 
cooperative  network,  through  which  it  coordinates 
immediate responses to disaster situations and complex 
emergencies and contributes to disaster risk reduction 
and response and recovery efforts. The White Helmets 
Commission  maintains  perspectives  on  gender  and 
on  the  needs  of  girls,  young  people,  the  elderly  and 
people  with  disabilities,  promoting  the  provision  of 
humanitarian  assistance  to  vulnerable  populations 
and  cooperation  in  building  communities  that  are 
more resilient in the face of disasters, including those 
generated or aggravated by climate change.
This  draft  resolution 
includes  a  number  of 
innovations  by  comparison  to  the  previous  version, 
adopted  by  the  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session 
(resolution 70/105), including with regard to multilateral 
international agreements such as the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development and the Sendai Framework for 
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030. It also recognizes 
the importance of ensuring that the public and private 
sectors and civil-society organizations, as well as the 
academic world and scientific and research institutions, 
collaborate more closely in disaster risk management.
In  2019  it  will  be  25  years  since  the  General 
Assembly recognized and endorsed the White Helmets 
through its adoption of resolution 49/139 B. Argentina’s 
continued  commitment  to  humanitarian  assistance  is 
highlighted  by  its  convening  of  the  regional  meeting 
on humanitarian assistance mechanisms, to be held in 
Buenos Aires next June. For Argentina, it is important 
to  emphasize  the  special  significance  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  approval  for  the  renewal  of  support  to 
the  White  Helmets  Commission,  given  that  along 
with  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights, 
humanitarian management is a priority element of our 
political commitments at the international level.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  more  than  80 
countries  that  have  sponsored  the  draft  resolution  in 
a sign of international support for the White Helmets 
Commission initiative.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Sweden to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.61.
Ms.  Schoulgin  Nyoni  (Sweden):  On  behalf  of  its 
more  than  100  sponsors,  it  is  my  great  privilege  to 
introduce  to  the  General  Assembly  this  year’s  draft 
resolution  on  the  strengthening  of  the  coordination 
of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations 
the  so-called  humanitarian 
omnibus resolution.
(A/73/L.61), 
This year marks the twenty-seventh anniversary of 
the landmark resolution 46/182, introduced and adopted 
in December 1991, which created the very foundations 
of today’s United Nations humanitarian system. Sweden 
has  facilitated  the  negotiations  on  the  resolution  ever 
since.  Humanitarian  needs  have  grown  exponentially 
in  recent  years  because  of  war,  protracted  conflicts, 
natural disasters and the effects of climate change. But 
the goal of our collective efforts remains the same as it 
was set out on that day in December 1991, to effectively 
come to the aid of our fellow women and men affected 
by  crises.  That  is  why  we  are  here  today.  Thanks  to 
the  constructive  engagement  of  all  delegations,  this 
4/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
year’s negotiations have resulted in several important 
improvements, reinforcements and adaptations. Today 
I will give just three examples.
First,  we  have  strengthened  the  language  on 
international  humanitarian  law,  and  not  least  on  the 
safety and security of medical personnel and medical 
care in armed conflict, which are key priority issues for 
Sweden and many other countries.
Secondly,  we  have  reinforced 
the  provisions 
on  sexual  and  gender-based  violence  and  on  sexual 
exploitation and abuse. The draft resolution now firmly 
puts victims and survivors of such violence at the core 
of response efforts and makes clear that the perpetrators 
must be held accountable.
efforts, 
humanitarian 
Finally, we have taken a major step forward with 
regard to the fight against food insecurity and the risk 
of  famine.  Echoing  Security  Council  resolution  2417 
(2018),  of  24  May  2018,  for  which  Sweden  was  one 
of  the  penholders,  the  draft  resolution  now  explicitly 
and  strongly  condemns  the  use  of  the  starvation  of 
civilians as a method of warfare, a practice prohibited 
by  international  humanitarian  law.  This  year’s  draft 
also  stresses  the  interdependency  and  importance  of 
partnerships between different forms of humanitarian 
assistance  and  the  importance  of  the  nexus  between 
shorter-term 
longer-term 
in  sustainable  development  and  our 
investments 
common responsibility to build, keep and sustain peace.
The  draft  resolution  that  I  am  proud  to  present 
here today is the result of the dedicated work of many 
Member  States,  large  and  small,  including  countries 
providing humanitarian assistance and those receiving 
it;  countries  prone  to  natural  disasters  and  those 
with  lessons  on  how  to  avoid  them  or  mitigate  their 
impact; and countries that have suffered violence and 
armed  conflict,  forcing  people  to  flee,  and  countries 
generously  hosting  those  in  need  of  protection.  I  am 
extremely  pleased  to  once  again  report  a  very  large 
number  of  sponsors  for  the  omnibus  resolution  —  I 
believe that there are about 101 now — with strong cross-
regional  support.  This  broad  and  diverse  ownership 
demonstrates  the  truly  global  nature  of  humanitarian 
solidarity.  It  is  through  our  collective  action  and 
support  that  we  will  succeed  in  improving  the  global 
humanitarian  system  and  ultimately  provide  relief  to 
those who need it the most.
Finally, I would like to underline that the General 
Assembly’s adoption by consensus of the humanitarian 
omnibus  draft  resolution,  as  well  as 
the  draft 
resolutions on natural disasters, safety and security and 
the  White  Helmets  Commission,  sends  an  important 
message  to  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  wider 
world about our collective commitment to an effective 
humanitarian response system. It is important that we 
send  this  message  and  that  we  do  so  together,  as  the 
United  Nations,  and  I  call  on  all  Member  States  to 
continue  to  support  this  draft  resolution  and  our  27-
year tradition of consensus.
Ms. Tang (Singapore): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the 10 States members of the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN).  We  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  reports 
on  current  efforts  and  the  progress  made  towards 
strengthening 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
assistance, as well as the trends and challenges in the 
global  humanitarian  landscape.  We  note  in  particular 
the  continued  challenges  that  the  United  Nations 
humanitarian  system  faces  in  ensuring  the  effective 
and efficient delivery of humanitarian assistance with 
overstretched capacities and resources.
ASEAN would like to take this opportunity to join 
others in commending the work of the United Nations 
system, in particular the Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian  Affairs,  in  coordinating  and  providing 
humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance,  often  in 
the  most  difficult  situations.  In  that  connection,  we 
encourage  the  United  Nations  system  to  strengthen 
partnerships  with  regional  organizations  in  order  to 
effectively  provide  humanitarian  assistance  while 
adhering  to  the  principles  of  neutrality,  humanity, 
impartiality and independence.
The  ASEAN  region  is  experiencing  a  rise  in 
complex  emergencies  and  human-induced  disasters 
and  is  also  highly  vulnerable  to  the  adverse  effects 
of  climate  change.  The  effects  of  those  disasters  risk 
reversing  the  gains  made  towards  the  realization  of 
ASEAN’s Community Vision 2025 and the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  Building  an  ASEAN 
community that is safer and more resilient in the face 
of  disaster  is  therefore  a  key  priority  for  our  region. 
Our strategy and vision for that goal are anchored in the 
ASEAN Vision 2025 on disaster management and the 
ASEAN  Declaration  on  One  ASEAN,  One  Response, 
whereby ASEAN works to respond to disasters as one 
in the region and outside.
18-43824
5/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
At  the  core  of  those  efforts  is  the  ASEAN 
Coordinating  Centre  for  Humanitarian  Assistance  on 
Disaster Management, the AHA Centre, which serves as 
the primary coordinating body on disaster management 
and emergency response. Over the past seven years, the 
AHA  Centre  has  played  a  critical  role  in  facilitating 
ASEAN’s collective response to 30 emergencies. Most 
recently, it has responded to multiple natural disasters 
in the region and provided assistance to communities 
affected  by  Tropical  Storm  Son-Tinh  and  flooding  in 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  and  Myanmar, 
Typhoon  Mangkhut  in  the  northern  Philippines,  the 
Lombok  earthquake  in  Indonesia  and  the  earthquake 
and tsunami in Indonesia’s Central Sulawesi province. 
ASEAN  member  States  have  also  coordinated  and 
contributed  humanitarian  assistance 
the 
AHA  Centre  to  other  emergencies  in  the  region.  The 
AHA  Centre  mobilizes  the  regional  stockpile  under 
ASEAN’s  disaster  emergency  logistics  system  and 
coordinates with various partners and stakeholders to 
provide additional support to communities affected by 
disasters, such as through the rapid deployment of the 
ASEAN’s emergency response and assessment team to 
support rapid assessments on the ground and facilitate 
ASEAN’s  response  and  international  assistance  to 
affected areas.
through 
Beyond ASEAN, we are also working very closely 
with  our  dialogue  partners  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region 
through  several  processes,  including  the ASEAN 
Defence  Ministers’  Meeting-Plus  Humanitarian 
Assistance and Disaster Relief and Military Medicine 
Exercise  and  the ASEAN  Regional  Forum  Disaster 
Relief  Exercise,  which  bring  together  the  largest 
number  of  civilian-military  personnel  and  assets  in 
the region.
Disaster  risk  reduction  and  management  also 
feature  prominently 
in  ASEAN’s  comprehensive 
partnership with the United Nations. We look forward to 
enhancing our collaboration in responding to complex 
disaster  situations  through  the  implementation  of  the 
ASEAN-United Nations Joint Strategic Plan of Action 
on Disaster Management and increased interoperability 
between the ASEAN Secretary-General, as the ASEAN 
Humanitarian Assistance Coordinator, and the United 
Nations  Under-Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian 
Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator.
ASEAN  is  seeking  to  position  itself  as  a  global 
leader in disaster management by 2025, as encapsulated 
in  the  ASEAN  2025  Vision  on  disaster  management. 
It is also the fervent hope of ASEAN and its member 
States that national and regional efforts will continue 
to  complement  and  contribute  positively  to  the  work 
of the United Nations system. We stand ready to share 
the lessons learned and experiences gained with other 
Member States and regional and global partners with 
a view to effectively and swiftly responding to future 
humanitarian and disaster relief needs.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Eling (European Union): I have the honour to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  its 
member States.
The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and  Association  Process  and  potential  candidate 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  the  European  Free  Trade 
Association  country  and  member  of  the  European 
Economic Area Liechtenstein; as well as Ukraine, the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves 
with this statement.
Twenty-seven  years  ago,  on  19  December  1991, 
the General Assembly adopted resolution 46/182. That 
pivotal resolution marked the collective commitment of 
the international community to helping alleviate human 
suffering and help the world’s most vulnerable people 
in their greatest moments of need. Since then, hundreds 
of millions of people who have experienced the horrors 
of violent conflict and natural disasters have received 
life-saving assistance.
the  humanitarian 
Nevertheless, needs are on the rise while resources 
are  overstretched  and 
space 
increasingly  challenged.  Those  are  the  operational 
realities  that  emerge  every  year  as  we  negotiate  and 
adopt the annual package of humanitarian resolutions. 
It is therefore essential that we engage in a collective 
reflection on how we can best step up our joint efforts 
and  address  the  humanitarian  challenges  on  the 
ground.  It  is  in  our  common  interest  to  ensure  that 
humanitarian workers have the necessary support and 
tools to operate in today’s humanitarian landscape. The 
tasks  facing  the  humanitarian  community  have  never 
been  more  daunting.  It  is  not  only  the  sheer  volume 
of humanitarian needs but, most importantly, the very 
nature of current humanitarian challenges. The number 
and  magnitude  of  humanitarian  crises  have  grown 
exponentially.  The  Global  Humanitarian  Overview 
2019  paints  a  sobering  picture.  Nearly  132  million 
6/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
people  around  the  world  will  need  humanitarian 
assistance in 2019. Almost $22 billion will be required 
to meet the needs of 93.6 million people.
At the same time, many humanitarian crises have 
become so protracted that they now seem permanent. 
The  average  humanitarian  crisis  now  lasts  more  than 
nine  years.  Such  crises  also  take  up  the  bulk  of  the 
resources  and  funding  available.  In  2018,  four  crises 
alone accounted for 55 per cent of all funding requested 
and received. More importantly, the increase in needs 
continues  to  outpace  the  increase  in  funding,  even 
when funding is on the rise. As of the end of November, 
donors  had  provided  more  than  $14  billion,  a  record 
level  of  funding,  to  humanitarian  response  plans, 
which  enabled  humanitarian  agencies  to  reach  more 
people  in  need  than  ever  before,  saving  millions  of 
lives. Nonetheless, even such generosity and increased 
engagement  remain  insufficient,  and  the  funding  gap 
for humanitarian action is currently estimated at about 
$10.5 billion. Statistics do not do justice to the task at 
hand.  The  underlying  factors  that  fuel  humanitarian 
needs  are  neither  disappearing  nor  abating.  Whole 
countries  and  even  regions  across  the  globe  remain 
susceptible  to  fragility,  stretching  the  humanitarian 
system  to  address  the  wider  ramifications  of  refugee 
crises, protracted displacement and the vulnerabilities 
of internally displaced persons (IDPs), further amplified 
by conflicts, food insecurity and climate change.
If 
the 
international  community 
is  genuinely 
interested  in  preventing  and  addressing  humanitarian 
emergencies, we have no choice but to acknowledge that 
the majority of today’s crises are man-made. In 2019, 
conflicts  are  projected  to  remain  the  main  drivers  of 
humanitarian needs. Protracted violence will continue 
to  negatively  affect  human  development  indicators, 
including  levels  of  poverty,  malnutrition,  access  to 
essential services and social rights. In addition to the 
tragic human costs of violence, conflicts lead to people 
fleeing their homes. The number of persons displaced 
by  conflict  has  continually  increased  in  recent  years, 
with more than 68.5 million people forcibly displaced 
by 2018. While many flee violence or persecution across 
borders, in the majority of cases forcible displacements 
occur  internally.  With  forced  displacements  lasting 
on  average  several  years,  IDPs  are  often  particularly 
vulnerable  where  meeting  their  most  basic  needs  is 
concerned.  Furthermore,  conflicts  are  increasingly  a 
leading cause of hunger. Conflict situations undermine 
food security in multiple ways and create severe access 
problems for humanitarian actors, who often struggle 
to  reach  those  most  in  need.  If  starvation  is  used  as 
a  method  of  warfare,  it  constitutes  a  grave  violation 
of  international  humanitarian  law,  which  the  EU 
condemns in the strongest terms.
Finally, we continue to witness how international 
humanitarian law is disregarded by parties to conflicts 
on an almost daily basis, with disastrous consequences. 
Hospitals  are  attacked  and  patients,  doctors,  nurses 
and  humanitarian  workers  are  targeted  and  often 
killed. Civilians are trapped in deadly sieges. Parties to 
conflicts routinely fail in their legal obligation to protect 
civilian populations. The consequences of conflicts are 
therefore  beyond  devastating.  The  already  vulnerable 
are hit first and hit the hardest, and they remain at the 
mercy of warring parties for a longer time.
This is the reality that we need to address today. The 
European Union and its member States are committed 
to assuming our part of the shared responsibility to save 
lives, alleviate suffering and preserve human dignity. 
Protecting civilians, ensuring respect for international 
humanitarian  law  and  providing  principled,  needs-
based  assistance  will  remain  the  cornerstones  of  our 
continued commitment to remaining at the forefront of 
the international humanitarian response.
We  will  stay  the  course  in  2019  and  continue  to 
devote substantial resources and attention to engaging 
inside Europe and in Europe’s neighbourhood, as well 
as  to  responding  to  emergencies  across  the  globe. 
But  rather  than  merely  reacting  to  the  humanitarian 
consequences  of  disaster  and  crises,  we  will  also 
address looming humanitarian needs in an anticipatory 
manner.  Whenever  possible,  we  want  to  provide 
humanitarian  assistance  before  a  disaster  strikes  or 
violence escalates. We must therefore further advance 
our  financing  to  support  anticipatory  humanitarian 
assistance  that  enables  early  humanitarian  action 
before crisis strikes.
Principled  humanitarian  action  will 
remain 
at  the  core  of  our  response,  whether  in  the  case  of 
natural  disasters  or  man-made  crises.  We  remain 
fundamentally  convinced  of  the  indispensable  nature 
of the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, 
impartiality  and  independence.  We  will  persevere 
in  our  efforts  to  ensure  that  respect  for  international 
humanitarian 
international 
human  rights  law  —  including  safeguarding  safe, 
sustained  humanitarian 
rapid,  unhindered 
law,  refugee 
law  and 
and 
18-43824
7/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
access — remains at the top of the international agenda. 
Where  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
occur, we will insist on the importance of accountability. 
Full,  prompt,  impartial  and  effective  investigations 
are  indispensable,  including  through  the  use  of  the 
International Criminal Court as a court of last resort.
In  the  light  of  the  global  security  environment, 
the protection of aid workers is one of the EU’s main 
priorities. Regardless of whether they are internationally 
or locally recruited, or whether they are from the United 
Nations,  the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement 
or  non-governmental  organizations,  humanitarian 
workers deserve our utmost respect and concern, and 
that  includes  protection  from  sexual  harassment  in 
the workplace.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  reiterate  their 
continued commitment to putting people at the centre of 
their humanitarian action. Women, children, the elderly 
and  people  with  disabilities  are  disproportionately 
vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  disasters  and  conflicts. 
Humanitarian  operations  must 
into  account 
their  specific  needs  and  capacities  and  involve  them 
throughout the response cycle. The EU therefore also 
wholeheartedly supports ongoing efforts related to the 
prevention of sexual abuse and exploitation.
take 
We must learn the lessons of past crises and pave the 
way for more sustainable responses. The humanitarian 
landscape, increasingly shaped by protracted crises and 
forced displacement, is shifting. We therefore need to 
adapt our response. Operationalizing the humanitarian-
development nexus, while taking into account the peace 
dimension, with full regard for the different mandates 
of  different  actors,  can  help  alleviate  vulnerabilities 
and reduce needs in the longer term. Humanitarian aid 
can never ultimately be the solution to a conflict. We 
urge the international community to work on political 
solutions to put an end to ongoing conflicts, which is 
the only way to put an end to the human suffering that 
follows in their wake.
therefore  enormous.  As 
The challenges facing the humanitarian community 
today  are 
the  General 
Assembly,  we  must  contribute  to  its  work  through 
the  draft  resolutions  that  we  are  adopting  today.  We 
do so by further strengthening the agreed framework 
for humanitarian action in draft resolution A/73/L.61, 
the  successor  to  resolution  46/182,  which  has  been 
introduced  and  very  skilfully  facilitated  by  an  EU 
member State, Sweden. We do so by recalling strongly 
the importance of ensuring the safety and security of 
humanitarians  and  United  Nations  personnel  through 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.51,  introduced  on  behalf  of 
all  of  the  28  States  members  of  the  European  Union. 
And  we  do  so  by  better  addressing  the  consequences 
of natural disasters through draft resolution A/73/L.18/
Rev.1,  introduced  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  very  ably 
facilitated  by  Morocco.  We  thank  the  facilitators  for 
their remarkable work.
The European Union and its member States remain 
collectively  the  world’s  largest  humanitarian  donor. 
The objective of our humanitarian aid is to save lives 
and alleviate suffering, wherever it is found. We shall 
continue  doing  our  part  in  a  principled  manner.  We 
count  on  the  rest  of  the  international  community  to 
join us.
Mr.  Lal  (India):  It  is  my  privilege  to  deliver  this 
statement  on  behalf  of  India  and  Sweden  on  this 
important issue.
India  and  Sweden  share  a  strong  commitment  to 
strengthening the United Nations system to respond to 
the complex and diverse humanitarian emergencies of 
our time. We are deeply concerned about the fact that 
humanitarian emergencies, primarily driven by natural 
disasters  and  armed  conflicts,  reached  a  new  high 
last  year,  with  more  than  131  million  people  needing 
humanitarian  assistance.  According  to  the  Global 
Humanitarian  Overview  2019, 
the  humanitarian 
funding requirement for 2019 is nearly $22 billion.
The 
increasing  number  of  people  who  have 
been  forcibly  displaced  as  a  result  of  humanitarian 
emergencies  remains  an  area  of  concern.  The  global 
compact on refugees and the global compact for safe, 
orderly and regular migration, both soon to be formally 
adopted, as well as the Sendai Framework for Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  2015-2030,  provide  the  frameworks 
for  enhanced  international  cooperation  in  mitigating 
displacement  and  reducing 
the  human  suffering 
it causes.
While  the  United  Nations  agencies  and  other 
partners have made a commendable response to several 
complex emergencies, attempting to address different 
kinds  of  humanitarian  emergencies  with  a  coherent 
and  comprehensive  approach  remains  a  significant 
challenge.  Greater  coordination  and  complementarity 
in  the  efforts  of  the  various  humanitarian  actors  are 
needed  if  they  are  to  undertake  effective  responses 
8/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
that  are  context-based  and  help  to  increase  local 
actors’ participation. We must adopt a victim-centred 
approach  to  humanitarian  responses,  with  respect  for 
human  dignity,  and  we  must  provide  the  flexibility 
that people need to make choices about the goods and 
services they need the most. We should also continue 
our efforts to develop multisectoral needs assessments 
and build strong databases to enhance the effectiveness, 
accountability  and 
transparency  of  humanitarian 
action. While the need for enhanced complementarity 
between  humanitarian 
and  development 
cooperation  is  well  understood,  especially  in  the 
context  of  today’s  multidimensional  crisis  situations, 
development  action  by  national  Governments  and  the 
international  community  must  focus  on  reducing  risk 
and  vulnerability,  which  will  help  to  build  resilience 
and capacity and prevent conflict. Humanitarian action 
must  focus  on  addressing  more  immediate  and  acute 
challenges while contributing to collective outcomes.
action 
The  persistent  gaps  in  humanitarian  funding 
for  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF), 
to  which  both  India  and  Sweden  are  long-standing 
donors, remain an area of concern. We call on Member 
States  to  consider  increasing  their  contributions  to 
the  United  Nations  humanitarian  assistance  system, 
including CERF and the country-based pooled funds. 
More  non-earmarked  flexible  funding  is  required  so 
that humanitarian agencies can use it as effectively as 
possible, thereby catering to people’s specific needs.
We  are  also  concerned  about  issues  relating  to 
access for humanitarian workers and to their protection, 
especially 
in  situations  of  armed  conflict.  This 
requires  special  and  serious  attention.  We  welcome 
draft resolution A/73/L.51, on the safety and security 
of  humanitarian  personnel  and  protection  of  United 
Nations  personnel,  which  we  will  adopt  here  today. 
Repeated violations of international humanitarian law 
and international human rights law remain one of the 
most persistent challenges in this area. The parties to 
armed  conflicts,  including  non-State  actors,  continue 
to flout international humanitarian law and perpetrate 
egregious  abuses  of  human  rights  with  impunity. 
Women  and  children  remain  the  most  vulnerable  and 
need  special  measures  for  their  protection.  We  must 
strengthen the framework for international cooperation 
in  this  area  in  order  to  bring  perpetrators  to  justice. 
All  humanitarian  actors  must  adhere  strictly  to  the 
policy  of  zero  tolerance  on  sexual  exploitation  and 
abuse and ensure that the victims are afforded adequate 
protection. We appreciate the Secretary-General’s deep 
commitment in that regard.
to  strengthen 
As  we  work 
the  coordination 
of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance,  we 
remain  committed  to  preserving  the  principles  of 
humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence in 
responding to all humanitarian situations. The primary 
responsibility for providing protection and assistance in 
humanitarian crises lies with the countries concerned. 
In addressing the specific needs of the affected people, 
international humanitarian assistance must be provided 
impartially, in accordance with the guiding principles 
of resolution 46/182.
Sweden is one of the single largest donors of core 
funding  to  the  United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies 
and provides significant support in tackling the world’s 
major  humanitarian  crises.  Its  overall  humanitarian 
budget  has  increased  over  the  past  five  years  in  line 
with  growing  global  humanitarian  needs.  In  2018, 
Sweden  made  a  decision  to  provide  the  World  Food 
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East,  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees and CERF with multi-year core funding for 
the period from 2018 to 2021.
Sweden’s humanitarian assistance is adapted to the 
world’s  growing  needs  and  to  the  financial  resources 
available,  and  it  is  committed  to  the  Grand  Bargain 
on  humanitarian  financing.  The  Grand  Bargain’s 
concrete  targets  provide  a  vehicle  for  effective  and 
efficient  reform  of  the  humanitarian  system.  Flexible 
humanitarian funding has continued to be a top priority 
for Sweden, as it enables more principled support and 
increased  effectiveness.  Flexible  funding  such  as 
core and pooled funding enables timely, independent, 
effective and efficient humanitarian action.
India  continues  to  assist  its  friends  and  partners 
in  relief  efforts,  particularly  in  dealing  with  natural 
disasters such as tsunamis, earthquakes and cyclones. 
Our efforts have ranged from the immediate supply of 
relief  materials  to  the  emergency  evacuation  of  large 
numbers of people of various nationalities from danger 
zones. In the past four years, India has rescued 90,000 
people, including nationals of 50 other countries, who 
have been caught up in natural disasters or strife.
Last year India provided $200,000 in emergency aid 
and $2 million for rehabilitation projects to Caribbean 
Community  countries  affected  by  Hurricanes  Irma 
18-43824
9/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
and  Maria,  as  well  as  $1  million  to  cyclone-affected 
Tonga, through the India-United Nations Development 
Partnership  Fund.  We  have  increased  our  annual 
financial contribution to the core budget of the United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East from $1 million in 2016 to 
$5  million  in  2018.  India  also  plays  an  active  part  in 
regional disaster management through forums such as 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Bay 
of  Bengal  Initiative  for  Multi-Sectoral  Technical  and 
Economic Cooperation.
The  United  Nations  should  continue  to  play  a 
central  role  in  providing  leadership  and  coordination 
for the efforts of the international community in order 
to support the strengthening of humanitarian response 
capacity  in  a  timely  and  cost-effective  manner.  In 
conclusion, let us not overlook the core of what we are 
talking  about,  which  is  human  beings.  The  essence 
of  humanitarian  response  is  to  save  people’s  lives, 
alleviate their suffering and maintain their dignity in 
the face of situations of natural disasters and violence. 
We call on all States to respect and honour international 
humanitarian  law  and  humanitarian  principles.  India 
and  Sweden  remain  committed  to  working  with  all 
parties to address the world’s humanitarian challenges 
in an effective and comprehensive manner.
Ms. Chuchottaworn (Thailand): At the outset, the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Singapore on behalf 
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Thailand would like to express its appreciation to 
the Secretary-General for his reports under this agenda 
item,  as  well  as  their  important  recommendations. 
We  also  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
sincere gratitude to all humanitarian personnel, within 
and outside the United Nations system, who have been 
working  tirelessly  to  provide  the  humanitarian  and 
disaster relief assistance the world needs. Thailand is 
of  the  view  that  one  of  our  important  priorities  must 
be  ensuring  the  safety  and  security  of  our  medical 
personnel,  humanitarian  personnel  and  peacekeeping 
missions around the world. We also thank the relevant 
agencies,  particularly  the  United  Nations  Office  for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, for playing 
a  commendable  role  in  coordinating  humanitarian 
disaster relief assistance operations.
Humanitarian  crises  remain  one  of  the  biggest 
and  most  pressing  challenges  of  our  time.  As  the 
hurricanes,  monsoon 
Secretary-General’s  reports  make  clear, 
the  year 
2017  was  punctuated  by  humanitarian  emergencies 
fuelled  by  conflicts  and  natural  disasters,  which 
drove  humanitarian  needs  to  a  new  high.  It  was  also 
the  second-most  economically  costly  year  on  record 
in  terms  of  losses  caused  by  devastating  disasters, 
particularly 
and 
severe  droughts.  In  many  of  the  affected  areas,  the 
unprecedented  devastation  required  a  more  rapid  and 
effective response than ever before. Thailand therefore 
attaches  great  importance  to  extending  humanitarian 
assistance  to  all,  particularly  the  most  vulnerable, 
including women, persons with disabilities, the elderly, 
children and young people. We are also committed to 
providing  humanitarian  services  and  disaster  relief 
under  the  guiding  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality, 
impartiality and independence.
floods 
The  gap  between  global  humanitarian  needs  and 
available funding continued in 2017, and in that regard, 
Thailand  reaffirms  its  efforts  to  help  address  that 
challenge. We have been a consistent contributor to the 
Central Emergency Response Fund, providing an annual 
donation of $20,000 since 2012. We have also allocated 
a  humanitarian  assistance  budget  of  approximately 
$1  million  each  year,  to  be  disbursed  as  needed,  and 
we  have  set  up  a  coordinating  committee  to  provide 
assistance to countries facing emergency situations due 
to  natural  disasters,  through  the  donation  of  supplies 
and funds, the dispatch of search-and-rescue teams and 
the provision of medical personnel.
the 
Thailand  also  recognizes 
importance  of 
in  reducing  human  and 
disaster  risk  reduction 
economic  losses,  and  in  that  regard  we  have  worked 
to  strengthen  national  and  local  preparedness  and 
response  capacities.  At  the  regional  level,  we  work 
closely  with  the  ASEAN  Coordinating  Centre  for 
Humanitarian Assistance on Disaster Management, in 
accordance  with  our  commitments  under  the  Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 and 
the Bangkok Principles for the implementation of the 
health  aspects  of  the  Sendai  Framework.  We  aim  to 
ensure a more comprehensive approach to addressing 
humanitarian situations.
The  importance  of  international  cooperation  in 
aiding peoples and countries affected by humanitarian 
disasters  cannot  be  stressed  enough.  Thailand  would 
like  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to  strengthening 
cooperation  with  all  stakeholders  and  partners, 
including  the  United  Nations,  in  order  to  provide 
10/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
humanitarian  assistance  around  the  world,  especially 
to the most vulnerable.
Mr. Alfassam (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): It is my 
honour and pride today to deliver the statement of the 
State of Kuwait under agenda item 75, “Strengthening 
of the coordination of humanitarian and disaster relief 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  including  special 
economic assistance”.
The  State  of  Kuwait,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Amir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  the  leader  of 
our  humanitarian  work,  accords  special  importance 
to  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance,  as 
demonstrated  by  our  commitment  to  helping  those 
affected  and  in  need  around  the  world,  in  keeping 
with  our  country’s  foreign  policy  and  what  may  be 
characterized as its humanitarian diplomacy. Kuwait is 
aware of the worsening humanitarian crises, conflicts 
and  major  flows  of  refugees  and  migrants  that  have 
led  to  immense  human  suffering,  which  increases 
the  burden  on  the  United  Nations  and  its  partners  in 
their efforts to address humanitarian and development 
challenges and coordinate humanitarian work.
In support of the relevant resolutions and reports of 
the General Assembly on the provision of humanitarian 
assistance, the State of Kuwait reiterates the importance 
of  strengthening  and  coordinating  the  humanitarian 
and  disaster  relief  assistance  of  the  United  Nations 
as  soon  as  possible  in  conflict  situations  and  crisis-
affected areas in order to save the lives of the people 
they  threaten.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  express 
our  deep  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  her  continued  support 
in  the  areas  of  humanitarian  assistance,  sustainable 
development, human rights and peace and security.
Kuwait  discharges  its  regional  and  international 
responsibilities  as  a  centre  for  humanitarian  work 
by  providing  continued  support  in  tackling  various 
global  humanitarian  issues  and  monitoring  crisis 
and  conflict  situations.  The  level  of  my  country’s 
official  development 
the 
internationally 
strengthening 
our  humanitarian  and  development  approach  at  both 
the  public  and  governmental  levels.  We  work  to 
fulfil  a  noble  humanitarian  mission  that  reflects  the 
genuine  principles  and  values  of  the  Kuwaiti  people. 
Furthermore, since 2008 we have directed 10 per cent 
of our total humanitarian assistance to crisis-affected 
agreed  percentage, 
assistance 
is 
twice 
States  through  United  Nations  organizations  and 
agencies. My delegation notes with concern the report 
of the Secretary-General (A/73/78) on this issue, which 
documents  unprecedented  levels  of  food  insecurity 
and record levels of forced displacement, with millions 
of  people  displaced  as  a  result  of  conflict,  violence 
and  persecution  around  the  world.  Syria,  Yemen  and 
Myanmar  are  current  examples  of  the  impact  of  such 
conflicts, crises and violence.
To  demonstrate  our  full  cooperation  with  efforts 
to  develop  humanitarian  links  between  all  States  in 
providing relief assistance following natural disasters, 
a  few  days  ago  the  State  of  Kuwait  announced  a 
voluntary  financial  contribution  of  $1  million  to  the 
Central Emergency Response Fund for 2019. We have 
also pledged a voluntary contribution for next year of 
$1  million  to  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  $2  million  to  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA).  I  would  like 
to  note  in  that  regard  that  Kuwait  has  responded  to 
UNRWA’s recent pleas by providing nearly $50 million 
to mitigate the funding crisis that the Agency is facing, 
which  is  another  factor  in  the  worsening  conditions 
being suffered by Palestinians.
In  conclusion,  we  express  our  appreciation  for 
the  pioneering  role  being  played  by  the  various 
United  Nations  bodies  and  organizations  and  their 
partners in supporting and coordinating humanitarian 
and  disaster  relief  assistance  around 
the  world. 
Kuwait  wholeheartedly  believes  that  the  capacity  for 
humanitarian action and good deeds is inherent in every 
person on our planet. The staff of the United Nations 
and  all  humanitarian  personnel  are  the  foot  soldiers 
who  give  their  all  in  performing  their  humanitarian 
activities,  and  we  extend  to  them  our  thanks  and 
deep appreciation.
Ms.  Fisher-Tsin 
(Israel):  Today  more 
than 
134 million people around the world are in urgent need 
of  humanitarian  assistance.  The  scale  of  the  problem 
and the depth of human suffering are staggering. Israel 
commends the efforts and actions of the United Nations 
humanitarian response system, working under difficult 
and  often  unpredictable  circumstances.  The  massive 
need for humanitarian aid has many causes, including 
natural disasters, epidemics and conflicts, with natural 
disasters alone claiming nearly 70,000 lives a year. It 
is crucial that Member States, civil society, the private 
sector,  the  relevant  agencies  and  other  humanitarian 
18-43824
11/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
actors strengthen the coordination of their humanitarian 
response  in  order  to  better  deliver  for  people  around 
the globe.
In 1958, not long after its founding, Israel adopted 
an  official  humanitarian  aid  agenda  that  has  guided 
the  country’s  international  cooperation  efforts  for 
the  past  60  years.  Israel  is  committed  to  extending 
humanitarian aid at any time and anywhere it is needed. 
Over the years, Israel has sent humanitarian relief and 
assistance  to  more  than  140  countries,  saving  many 
thousands  of  lives.  Israel  is  often  among  the  first  on 
the scene in the wake of earthquakes, floods, famines 
and other natural disasters. MASHAV, Israel’s agency 
for  international  development  cooperation,  leads  our 
efforts  in  assistance  and  development  aid.  It  has  the 
capacity  to  rapidly  organize  and  dispatch  urgently 
needed  supplies  and  medical  assistance,  wherever 
and  whenever  disaster  strikes.  Immediately  after  the 
devastating eruptions of Volcán de Fuego in Guatemala 
in June, MASHAV organized and delivered immediate 
humanitarian 
this  year’s 
earthquake in Papua New Guinea, Israel delivered and 
installed 40 generators to communities with damaged 
infrastructure.  After  a  recent  cholera  outbreak  in 
Cameroon,  MASHAV  delivered  10  water-purification 
units to help contain the epidemic. Each of those units, 
which  operate  without  electricity,  supplies  the  daily 
needs of 500 people. MASHAV has delivered the same 
units to many other countries.
assistance.  Following 
Israel  also  built  state-of-the-art  trauma  units 
in  Guinea  and  Togo  earlier  this  year  and,  just  as 
importantly,  sent  medical  personnel  to  train  local 
health-care providers in emergency medical techniques. 
Building  local  capacity  has  been  MASHAV’s  aim 
since  its  inception  and  “train  the  trainer”  its  byword 
for  decades.  Israel  has  sent  search-and-rescue  teams 
around the world following natural disasters. Just last 
month,  Israel’s  urban  search-and  rescue-team  passed 
a  demanding  international  certification  assessment 
qualifying  it  to  join  the  International  Search  and 
Rescue Advisory Group, an elite global network under 
the United Nations umbrella that can be called on when 
disaster strikes. Those are only a few recent examples 
of  Israel’s  humanitarian  assistance,  and  there  are 
many others. Reaching out across borders and giving 
assistance  to  people  without  regard  for  the  country 
they live in are what Member States should aspire to, 
because seeing one another as individuals and seeing 
their needs as individual needs is the first step towards 
healing the world on a global scale.
Mr. Al-Shamsi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 
Arabic): At the outset, the United Arab Emirates aligns 
itself with the statement delivered by the representative 
of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China. 
We  would  like  to  add  the  following  points  in  our 
national capacity.
the 
First,  we  are  pleased  to  note  this  year’s  call  for 
strengthening  proactive  and  predictable 
funding 
mechanisms at the United Nations. Those mechanisms 
testing  phase  and  have 
have  gone  beyond 
demonstrated  science’s  ability 
to  accurately  and 
reliably predict disasters, enabling us to take proactive 
measures,  intervene  at  an  early  stage,  save  lives  and 
cut  costs.  We  hope  that  by  this  time  next  year,  those 
mechanisms  will  be  applied  to  existing  humanitarian 
funds  in  order  to  support  early  interventions  and 
humanitarian responses.
Secondly, we continue to note the need to develop 
stronger  indicators  to  serve  as  effective  tools  for 
ensuring that everyone in an affected area receives the 
necessary  humanitarian  assistance.  We  consider  the 
Inter-Agency Standing Committee’s Gender with Age 
Marker a step in the right direction. We also hope that 
the Committee will pursue and expand its work on age 
indicators  and,  more  importantly,  work  to  develop  a 
disability indicator.
Thirdly,  we  believe  it  is  important  to  focus  on 
early  childhood  development  within  the  context  of 
humanitarian response as a part of an integrated human 
development  approach.  In  that  regard,  we  commend 
the  progress  that  the  United  Nations  has  made  with 
regard to the education of older children in emergency 
situations,  of  which  the  United  Arab  Emirates  is  a 
strong  supporter  in  several  initiatives,  notably  the 
Education Cannot Wait initiative. We must also make 
a huge effort to support children in their early years by 
providing them with a full range of services, including 
in the areas of health, nutrition, learning and parental 
support.  Without  them,  those  children’s  long-term 
potential will be significantly reduced, damaging their 
communities’  ability  to  transition  to  post-conflict  or 
post-disaster phases.
In  conclusion,  my  country  looks  forward  to 
continuing to work on these issues with other Member 
States,  organizations  and  stakeholders  next  year  in 
12/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
order to develop and strengthen coordination in the area 
of the provision of humanitarian and relief assistance.
Mr.  Santos  Maraver  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Spain aligns itself with the statement delivered earlier 
by the observer of the European Union.
Each  year,  this  agenda  item  on  the  General 
Assembly’s programme of work gives us an opportunity 
to reflect on the main issues on the global humanitarian 
agenda  —  humanitarian  crises,  conflicts  and  natural 
disasters.  Our  collective  contribution  through  the 
Assembly is outlined in the four draft resolutions to be 
adopted today, for all of which Spain is a sponsor.
The Global Humanitarian Overview 2019 notes that 
132 million people will require assistance next year, of 
whom more than 65 million will be forcibly displaced 
due to conflicts, violence and natural disasters. Many 
of them are living in situations of prolonged crisis, with 
little  visibility.  We  must  pay  more  attention  to  those 
forgotten crises, in terms of both their funding and the 
political and media attention that they receive.
Conflicts  and  other  forms  of  violence  are  the 
main  causes  of  humanitarian  emergencies  throughout 
the  world.  That  is  why,  in  addition  to  providing 
humanitarian assistance, we have an obligation to seek 
solutions to the root causes of conflicts and violence. 
We  must  defend  the  right  of  women  to  participate 
effectively and on an equal footing in all such efforts  
Their  full  participation  underpins  sustainability  and 
peacebuilding  efforts.  In  order  for  no  one  to  be  left 
behind,  it  is  essential  to  ensure  that  all  are  treated 
inclusively, especially the most vulnerable — women, 
children, persons with disabilities, LGBTI persons and 
the elderly.
We  therefore  want  to  reiterate  in  this  forum  the 
importance of the international legal ban on attacking 
civilians and using starvation against them as a method 
of  war.  We  also  want  to  highlight  the  obligation  to 
protect health and humanitarian personnel working in 
conflict-affected areas and the need to grant unimpeded 
access  for  humanitarian  assistance.  As  the  Assembly 
is  well  aware,  we  are  particularly  concerned  about 
attacks  on  hospitals  and  doctors  in  conflict  zones. 
Together  with  other  countries,  Spain  therefore  wants 
to  enahncethe  implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2286 (2016).
The  degradation  of  the  environment  and  the 
consequences of climate change aggravate the impact 
of  conflicts.  For  that  reason,  we  support  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change and believe that, based 
on  the  worrying  scientific  conclusions  in  the  report 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change, 
it is essential that we take advantage of the synergies 
inherent in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement. 
We  are  proud  to  be  among  the  States  promoting  the 
global  compact  on  refugees  and  the  global  compact 
for safe, orderly and regular migration, which we hope 
the  General  Assembly  will  adopt  next  week.  Spain’s 
political  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  and  to 
active  and  effective  multilateralism  is  manifest  in  its 
response  to  humanitarian  needs.  We  will  continue  to 
make a sustained effort to increase the Spanish Agency 
for  International  Development  Cooperation’s  funding 
for humanitarian action.
Beyond  funding,  we  will  contribute  to  tackling 
these  humanitarian  challenges  by  using  all  existing 
tools,  including  our  participation  on  the  Executive 
Boards of the World Food Programme and the Office of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
and through the Donor Support Group of the Office for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  —  which 
Spain  will  chair  from  July  2019  to  June  2020 —  and 
the International Committee of the Red Cross. In that 
context, and as part of our commitment in joining the 
Safe Schools Declaration of 2015, Spain will host the 
third  International  Conference  on  Safe  Schools  on 
28 and 29 May 2019, which we encourage all delegations 
to attend.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating    Spain’s 
commitment to international humanitarian law and the 
resolution  of  forgotten  crises  and  to  the  provision  of  
equal and inclusive humanitarian assistance.
Mr. Blanchard (Canada): I would like to thank the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Spain  and  to  say  that  I 
wholeheartedly agree with everything he said.
(spoke in French)
The scale and complexity of today’s humanitarian 
crises  are  unprecedented.  They  must  be  met  with  a 
robust  humanitarian  response  that  genuinely  meets 
the needs of the people affected. I will focus on three 
specific areas.
The  first  is  gender-sensitive  humanitarian  action. 
Humanitarian  responses  should  continue  to  empower 
women  and  girls  as  drivers  of  change,  ensure  that 
18-43824
13/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
they  have  an  equal  voice  and  representation  in 
decision-making on issues that affect them, and meet 
their  basic  needs,  including  access  to  education  and 
health care — which includes sexual and reproductive 
health and the rights of girls and women — as well as 
preventing and combating gender-based violence. That 
is what Canada strives for.
Besides that, we were pleased to see the inclusion of 
new language on the prevention of sexual exploitation 
and abuse in this year’s draft humanitarian resolutions. 
The 
international  community  must  make  greater 
efforts  to  prevent  and  respond  to  sexual  exploitation 
and abuse, including in the areas of development and 
humanitarian assistance. In that regard, we commend 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  implement  a  zero-
tolerance  approach  in  order  to  protect  the  rights  of 
victims  of  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse.  In  January 
2019,  Canada  will  assume  the  leadership  of  the  Call 
to  Action  on  Protection  from  Gender-Based  Violence 
in  Emergencies.  We  are  determined  to  work  together 
with  our  partners  in  order  to  improve  the  way  in 
which  gender-based  violence  in  emergency  situations 
is addressed.
Secondly,  we  welcome  the  steps  taken  by  the 
international community to combat the issue of forced 
displacement.  Canada  supports  a  comprehensive 
approach  in  responding  to  the  needs  of  refugees  and 
their  host  communities,  and  we  look  forward  eagerly 
to  the  upcoming  endorsement  of  the  global  compact 
on refugees through the General Assembly’s adoption 
of the omnibus resolution of the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We believe 
firmly  that  the  global  compact  will  considerably 
improve  our  ability  to  respond  to  the  situation  of 
refugees and that the inaugural Global Refugee Forum 
in  December  2019  will  be  crucial  to  the  meaningful 
implementation of the global compact.
(spoke in English)
Finally, we need to increase our efforts to ensure 
that  humanitarian  assistance  reaches  those  most  in 
need when and where they need it. That must include 
those in hard-to-reach and besieged areas. International 
humanitarian law and humanitarian principles provide 
the  framework  that  enables  us  to  do  that.  We  must 
consistently  speak  out  against  impediments  to  access 
and  against  attacks  on  civilians,  health-care  facilities 
and medical and humanitarian personnel, because such 
actions  deny  the  provision  of  assistance  and  violate 
international humanitarian law.
I would like to thank the facilitators of each of the 
draft  resolutions  being  adopted  today  for  their  able 
leadership of the negotiation process, and to recognize 
the  collegiality,  flexibility  and  spirit  of  compromise 
demonstrated by delegations throughout the negotiation 
process. Their efforts have ensured that this year’s draft 
resolutions  remain  strong  and  relevant  texts  focused 
on  the  prevailing  humanitarian  situations  of  today. 
Canada emphasizes its support for the consensus-based 
adoption of humanitarian resolutions as a symbol of the 
international community’s unwavering commitment to 
addressing the needs of those affected by humanitarian 
crises and to honour the dedication of the humanitarian 
workers who strive to alleviate suffering on a daily basis.
Humanitarian  resolutions  address  some  of  the 
most  pressing  and  challenging  global 
issues  of 
today,  and  it  is  our  duty  as  a  global  community  to 
ensure  that  we  continue  to  make  progress  and  build 
on  previous  work.  We  are  also  pleased  to  see  a  new 
paragraph  in  this  year’s  omnibus  draft  resolution  on 
non-communicable  diseases.  So  far  the  challenges 
related  to  such  diseases  in  humanitarian  crises  have 
been  insufficiently  recognized  and  addressed.  We 
note  with  concern  attempts  to  revisit  and  remove 
language  that  promotes  and  protects  the  safety,  well-
being  and  dignity  of  crisis-affected  populations.  In 
particular,  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights 
are inseparably linked to gender equality, women and 
girls’ economic empowerment, poverty reduction and 
sustainable development.
In  closing,  Canada  commends  the  remarkable 
dedication of United Nations personnel, humanitarian 
workers and medical personnel, including international, 
national  and  locally  recruited  staff,  in  delivering 
life-saving assistance  in  increasingly  complex  and 
volatile  environments,  often  at  great  personal  risk. 
Their  work  is  as  inspiring  as  it  is  invaluable,  and  we 
remain committed to working to strengthen the respect 
for protection norms that will allow them to continue to 
perform their life-saving work.
Ms. Luo Jin (China) (spoke in Chinese): The world 
today is facing persistently high levels of humanitarian 
needs, owing to natural disasters, armed conflicts and 
protracted  crises.  At  the  same  time,  climate  change, 
food  insecurity  and  the  global  threat  of  epidemics 
have further exacerbated the humanitarian challenges 
14/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
in developing countries. The international community 
must uphold the concept of a community with a shared 
future  for  humankind  and  should  seek  to  strengthen 
unity  and  cooperation,  step  up  its  contributions  and 
take  active  measures  to  address  both  consequences 
and  root  causes  in  our  common  effort  to  respond  to 
humanitarian  needs  and  challenges.  In  that  regard, 
China would like to underscore the following points.
shortage of available funding and a lack of technology 
and  human  resources.  While  taking  into  account  the 
specific  conditions  and  individual  needs  of  affected 
countries,  the  international  community  should  scale 
up its financial and technical assistance and strengthen 
capacity-building  at  all  levels  in  order  to  create 
synergies  and  improve  the  disaster  risk  management 
capabilities and resilience of the countries affected.
First, we must respond in a timely manner to the 
priority  needs  of  countries  receiving  humanitarian 
assistance,  while  respecting  their  ownership  of  the 
process.  International  humanitarian  assistance  must 
comply  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
resolution 46/182, adhere to the principles of humanity, 
neutrality and impartiality, respect the sovereignty and 
territorial  integrity  of  countries  receiving  assistance, 
comply  with  international  law  and  the  internal  laws 
of  host  countries,  refrain  from  interference  in  host 
countries’  internal  affairs  and  from  politicizing  their 
humanitarian issues, and ensure that recipient countries 
play a leading role in the organization and coordination 
of their humanitarian activities. The parties to armed 
conflicts  must  observe  international  humanitarian 
law,  abide  by  their  obligation  to  protect  civilians, 
humanitarian  personnel  and  medical  personnel  and 
facilities  and  ensure  unhindered  humanitarian  access 
and the delivery of humanitarian assistance.
Secondly, we must invest in long-term development 
and  enhance  the  capacity  of  developing  countries  to 
achieve sustainable development independently, which 
will  in  turn  help  reduce  humanitarian  needs.  The 
factors  leading  to  humanitarian  crises  are  complex, 
and their fundamental solutions lie in the promotion of 
development and peace, as well as addressing both the 
symptoms and root causes of conflicts. While working 
to  address  short-term  humanitarian  needs  effectively, 
the  international  community  should  also  scale  up 
its  development  efforts  in  order  to  help  developing 
countries alleviate poverty, improve livelihoods, boost 
education  and  support  efforts  to  implement  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Thirdly,  we  must  enhance  the  capacity-building 
of  developing  countries  to  enable  them  to  respond 
effectively  to  natural  disasters,  which  are  causing 
increasing human losses and relapses into poverty, in 
some cases wiping out in an instant what countries or 
regions may have achieved over many years. Developing 
countries tend to suffer from inadequate disaster-relief 
capabilities  and  resources,  owing  particularly  to  a 
China  attaches  great  importance  to  international 
humanitarian relief efforts and actively participates in 
them. Through bilateral channels as well as organizations 
and agencies such as the World Food Programme, the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  UNICEF 
and the World Health Organization, we have provided 
timely assistance to affected countries in responding to 
food crises, post-disaster reconstruction, improvements 
to  maternal  and  child  nutrition  and  health  care  and 
outbreaks of Ebola. In 2018, in the wake of hurricanes, 
floods  and  earthquakes,  China  provided  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance 
to  Tonga,  Papua  New 
Guinea, Somalia, Kenya, Sri Lanka, the Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic  and  Indonesia, supporting  their 
Governments  with  disaster  relief  and  reconstruction 
assistance. China has also announced the allocation of 
¥600 million of relief assistance to Syria, Jordan and 
Lebanon for humanitarian and reconstruction purposes, 
as well as ¥1 billion of emergency humanitarian food 
assistance to various crisis-stricken countries in Africa.
China  will  honour  its  commitments  to  working 
together with the international community to meet the 
needs of recipient countries and will continue to help 
other developing countries to the best of its ability in 
responding to humanitarian crises.
Mr.  Favre  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
world’s  humanitarian  needs  continue  to  grow  year 
after year, as the Global Humanitarian Overview 2019
illustrates once again. The number of people who have 
been  forcibly  displaced,  whether  fleeing  violence 
or  disaster,  continues  to  increase  and  is  approaching 
70  million  this  year.  The  norms  of  international 
humanitarian  law  are  routinely  violated,  and  civilian 
populations  and  humanitarian  workers  are  regularly 
attacked.  Food  insecurity  indicators  are  increasing 
and  the  threat  of  famine  is  again  on  the  rise.  It  is 
increasingly  difficult  to  ensure  that  humanitarian  aid 
reaches populations in need and that they have access to 
assistance and protection. In the face of such numerous 
challenges, the international community must provide 
a strong and united response and the draft resolutions 
18-43824
15/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
that we are discussing today should fully express that. I 
would like to highlight three fundamental points.
First,  pursuant  to  resolution  46/182,  we  want  to 
reiterate  that  in  all  circumstances  and  all  contexts 
humanitarian assistance must be provided in accordance 
with the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality 
and  independence,  in  order  to  protect  and  assist  the 
people who really need it.
Secondly, 
international 
humanitarian 
law 
represents  the  universally  accepted  legal  framework 
for the protection of all victims of armed conflict and 
the provision of humanitarian assistance. It is essential 
to ensure that this framework is respected by all parties 
and in all circumstances, including in contexts where 
groups  designated  as  terrorists  are  active,  as  well  as 
in  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  counter-
terrorism  measures.  The  challenges  that  we  have  to 
respond  to  together  are  enormous.  Access  to  people 
in  need  must  be  ensured.  The  protection  of  civilians, 
including those who risk their lives to care for the sick 
and  injured,  must  be  strengthened.  The  perpetrators 
of  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law  must 
be prosecuted.
Thirdly, 
the  problem  of  forced  displacement 
resulting  from  natural  disasters,  climate  change  or 
armed  conflict  requires  close  coordination  between 
humanitarian  and  development  actors,  as  well  as  the 
promotion of peace and human rights. We should develop 
approaches that encompass prevention, protection and 
resilience.  Internally  displaced  persons  in  particular 
are  too  often  left  behind,  and  effective  strategies  are 
needed to provide protection and assistance and prevent 
this kind of displacement.
Given  the  immense  humanitarian  challenges  we 
are currently facing, the progress made this year with 
regard  to  these  resolutions  is  encouraging.  We  note, 
however,  that  the  draft  resolutions  we  are  adopting 
today  still  fall  short  of  what  the  global  humanitarian 
situation requires, particularly in terms of humanitarian 
access  and  protection.  Lastly,  my  delegation  would 
like to express its deep gratitude to the members who 
facilitated the various draft resolutions. The facilitators 
have  worked  extremely  hard  to  arrive  at  consensus 
decisions  that  reflect  the  unity  among  States  with 
regard to addressing humanitarian needs.
Ms.  Ravilova-Borovik 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke in Russian): The Russian Federation is an active 
participant  in  the  area  of  international  cooperation 
emergency 
humanitarian 
for 
assistance.  We 
regularly provide support to the main United Nations 
humanitarian  agencies  and  deploy  rescue  teams  of 
qualified specialists to bring humanitarian assistance to 
areas affected by natural disasters and armed conflicts.
In  2018,  Russian  funding  for  United  Nations 
humanitarian  agencies  and  direct  contributions  to 
humanitarian  appeals  exceeded  $80  million.  We 
are  a  donor  to  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  support 
its  role  in  coordinating  the  work  of  agencies  and 
non-governmental  organizations.  In  addition,  we 
provide  $1.5  million  annually  to  the  United  Nations 
Central Emergency Response Fund, which we consider 
a key universal instrument in financing humanitarian 
assistance in the early stages of emergency situations. 
Given  the  growing  need  for  assistance  around  the 
world,  we  support  the  Secretary-General’s  appeal  to 
increase the Fund’s capitalization to $1 billion.
the  course  of 
With  regard  to  fund-raising  for  humanitarian 
assistance,  we  should  not  fail  to  mention  highly 
innovative  methods  such  as  forecast-based  financing 
for  positioning  resources.  In 
the 
negotiations on the related draft resolution (A/73/L.61), 
we  had  the  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  our 
colleagues on this subject and listen to expert opinions. 
We have decided to promote this method of financing 
humanitarian  assistance  and  hope  that  humanitarian 
organizations will take it on board in the near future. 
We agree with the calls by a number of delegations to 
continue  working  on  expanding  and  diversifying  the 
club  of  donors.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  a  number 
of Arab States have joined and hope their partnership 
with the humanitarian community will be a long one. 
We  are  also  closely  following  the  development  of 
United  Nations  cooperation  with  the  World  Bank.  It 
could contribute to the flow of additional funds in the 
long term, but while that is certainly a positive trend, in 
our view such appropriations should serve the aims and 
principles of the humanitarian community and should 
not be tied to the promotion in the United Nations of 
concepts that do not enjoy wide support.
We have yet to assess the impact on humanitarian 
assistance  of  the  reforms  currently  under  way  in  the 
development  system.  In  our  opinion,  the  formula  for 
the  transition  from  humanitarian  aid  to  rehabilitation 
and  development  has  not  outgrown  its  usefulness,  as 
some  delegations  believe,  and  is  still  the  best  option 
for planning the work of United Nations bodies at the 
16/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
country level. Most importantly, it guarantees a clear and 
understandable distribution of mandates and provides a 
so-called humanitarian space that, as we understand it, 
enables  humanitarian  agencies  to  adhere  consistently 
to  humanitarian  principles.  That  is  why  we  are  not 
ready to support the concept promoted by a number of 
partners of a nexus between humanitarian assistance, 
development,  peacebuilding  and  human  rights.  While 
interaction between these areas should unquestionably 
be  developed,  we  believe  that  mixing  them  together, 
thereby 
among  mandates, 
guidelines  and  resources,  is  counterproductive.  We 
would like to remind the departments of the Secretariat 
and humanitarian agencies that there is no agreement 
among Member States on the concept of a nexus, and 
we ask them to bear that in mind in their work.
confusion 
creating 
leverage 
We also want to remind members once again that 
the humanitarian principles defined in resolution 46/182 
should continue to be the guidelines for the humanitarian 
community. We insist on their inviolability and call on 
all  involved  in  international  humanitarian  assistance 
to conduct their work neutrally and impartially and to 
respect  State  sovereignty,  as  the  resolution  mandates. 
We  consider  the  practice  of  using  the  humanitarian 
agenda  as 
in  achieving  political  gains 
completely  unacceptable,  as  we  do  any  attempt  to  tie 
humanitarian assistance to internal political processes. 
Such efforts are inhumane and unfair to those in need.
Despite  all  the  complications  and  differences 
in  States’  approaches  to  the  problems  related  to 
humanitarian responses, we must work to find common 
ground. The 136 million people affected need our help 
just  as  much  as  they  need  us  to  be  able  to  reach  an 
agreement.  We  can  solve  this  multifaceted  problem 
only  in  an  atmosphere  of  mutual  trust  and  respect, 
without disunity.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): As a member of the Group of 77 and China, 
we  would  of  course  like  to  begin  by  welcoming  the 
Assembly’s  forthcoming  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.18/Rev.1,  entitled  “International  cooperation 
on  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  field  of  natural 
disasters,  from  relief  to  development”.  We  are  also 
grateful to Argentina for presenting and facilitating the 
draft of the biannual resolution on the White Helmets 
Commission  (A/73/L.53),  of  which  we  are  a  proud 
sponsor.  We  thank  Sweden  for  facilitating  the  draft 
omnibus  resolution  (A/73/L.61),  which  we  are  also 
proud to sponsor. Lastly, we are grateful to Austria for 
presenting, on behalf of the European Union, the draft 
resolution  on  the  safety  and  security  of  humanitarian 
personnel and protection of United Nations personnel 
(A/73/L.51).
to 
their  characteristics,  accountability 
El Salvador welcomes these four draft resolutions, 
which we hope will enable us to continue building an 
efficient  humanitarian  response  in  cases  of  disaster, 
taking  into  account  every  aspect  of  disaster  risks, 
threats 
including  exposure  and  vulnerability 
and 
in 
risk 
management,  the  importance  of  preparing  to  rebuild 
better, and mobilizing investments that take risks into 
account. In that regard, we would like to highlight the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  Office  for  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction (UNISDR), as well as the application of the 
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, as key 
tools  in  the  prevention  of  humanitarian  crises  caused 
by natural disasters.
We also believe that aspects such as resilience in 
health infrastructure, cultural heritage and the workplace, 
the strengthening of international cooperation and the 
development  of  donor  policies  and  programmes  that 
take  risks  into  consideration  —  including  loans  and 
financial  support  provided  by  international  financial 
institutions  — should be applied under the principles 
outlined  in  the  Sendai  Framework  and  in  accordance 
with the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We  also  want  to  highlight  the  reference  included 
in the draft omnibus resolution to the call to action on 
and  commitment  to  combating  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate  change,  natural  hazards  and  environmental 
degradation,  among  other  things,  which  exacerbate 
poverty,  inequality  and  vulnerability  while  reducing 
people’s  capacity  to  cope  with  humanitarian  crises. 
We  acknowledge 
the  significant 
achievements of the Central Emergency Response Fund, 
which  facilitates  rapid  responses  for  saving  the  lives 
of crisis victims, and we emphasize the importance of 
expanding and diversifying the Fund’s income base. In 
that regard, we welcome the Secretary-General’s call to 
increase the Fund’s level to $1 billion.
the  mention  of 
El Salvador and the entire Central American region 
have  been  affected  by  floods  and  droughts  resulting 
from  climate  change  and  the  El  Niño  phenomenon, 
which  according  to  official  projections  has  an  80  per 
cent probability of entering a new cycle in 2019. That 
has the potential to create humanitarian emergencies, 
18-43824
17/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
displacement and even food insecurity and migratory 
movements.  In  that  regard,  we  want  to  highlight 
paragraph  69  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.18/Rev.1, 
introduced by the Group 77 and China, and the draft 
resolution recently adopted by the Second Committee 
(A/73/538/Add.3)  on  an  effective  global  response  to 
address  the  impacts  of  the  El  Niño  phenomenon.  We 
note,  however,  that  the  draft  Organizationmnibus 
resolution contains no mention of this phenomenon and 
its consequences. We encourage the General Assembly 
to keep a close eye on this issue in its discussions on 
both disaster prevention and humanitarian assistance, 
and  to  further  recognize  the  impact  of  small-scale  or 
slow-moving disasters that, while they do not receive 
extensive international media attention, can indeed do 
extensive  and  irreversible  damage  to  our  countries’ 
economic, social and environmental structures.
We  wish  also  to  highlight  paragraph  60  of  the 
draft omnibus resolution, which calls for recognizing 
and  addressing  the  consequences  of  humanitarian 
emergencies  for  migrants.  We  once  again  emphasize 
and defend the adoption of the global compact for safe, 
orderly  and  regular  migration,  as  well  as  the  global 
compact on refugees, and we call on the international 
community  to  respond  in  a  timely  manner  to  the 
humanitarian  aspects  of  migratory  flows.  We  also 
want to take this opportunity to commend the United 
Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs (OCHA) and express our satisfaction with the 
publication of the Global Humanitarian Overview 2019
and World Humanitarian Data and Trends 2018, which 
are  comprehensive,  authoritative  and  evidence-based 
sources of information on global humanitarian needs. 
We also note the International Federation of Red Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  Societies’  recent  publication  of  the 
World Disasters Report 2018. We would like to thank 
all Member States actively involved in negotiating the 
four  draft  resolutions,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations 
Office for Disaster Risk Reduction, OCHA and various 
other  entities  and  offices  of  the  Secretariat  and  the 
United Nations system.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  El 
Salvador’s commitment to continuing its participation 
in the always essential building and improvement of the 
global  humanitarian  system,  as  well  as  our  hope  that 
international  support  for  the  United  Nations  system 
in  both  El  Salvador  and  the  region  will  be  there  if  it 
is needed.
Mr. Haughey  (Ireland):  Ireland  aligns  itself  with 
the statement delivered by the observer of the European 
Union on behalf of its member States.
Ireland  warmly  welcomes 
the  draft 
issues.  The  process 
the  Assembly’s 
resolutions 
forthcoming  adoption  of 
on  humanitarian 
leading 
to 
our  agreement  on  them  represented  an  important 
opportunity for us all to recommit to our predecessors’ 
vision in resolution 46/182 of ensuring more effective 
collective  efforts  for  the  provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  There  have  been  few  moments  when  such 
efficiency  in  humanitarian  action  has  been  needed 
more  than  it  is  now.  The  scale  of  the  humanitarian 
challenge  facing  our  international  community  cannot 
be overstated. The majority of the crises we are facing 
are driven by conflict, which has resulted in more than 
65 million people being forced to flee their homes and 
millions more left in need of humanitarian assistance. 
We  are  particularly  concerned  about  the  situation  in 
Yemen.  We  call  on  all  parties  to  cooperate  in  order 
to  achieve  a  political  resolution  to  that  conflict, 
respect  international  humanitarian  law  and  ensure 
unrestricted humanitarian access and the free flow of 
commercial goods.
When  adherence  to  international  humanitarian 
law  and  respect  for  humanitarian  principles  are 
disregarded  or  discarded,  the  space  for  humanitarian 
action  contracts  and  people  die.  We  are  deeply 
concerned  about  the  increasingly  challenging  context 
in which humanitarian workers operate. We have seen 
increasing threats to the ability of humanitarian actors 
to  function,  a  sense  of  impunity  in  the  application 
of  international  humanitarian  law,  a  shrinking  civil 
space  and  the  targeting  of  humanitarian  workers.  It 
is the responsibility of every Member State to ensure 
that those who violate international humanitarian law 
are held to account. We pay tribute today to those aid 
workers  who  have  lost  their  lives  in  the  line  of  duty 
over  this  past  year,  and  salute  all  those  who  work  in 
some  of  the  most  challenging  conditions  imaginable, 
delivering  humanitarian  aid  to  those  in  need  around 
the  world.  Faced  with  these  challenges,  which  are 
often  deeply  complex  and  protracted  in  nature,  the 
international community has a duty to come together 
to assist countries experiencing conflict and to try to 
build  a  path  to  reconciliation,  to  prevent  conflict  by 
addressing  its  root  causes,  including  climate  change, 
nutrition,  poverty  and  inequality  and  to  uphold  and 
promote international humanitarian law.
18/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
Ireland is committed to addressing those challenges 
in  partnership  with  others.  We  have  committed  to 
increasing our development spending to 0.7 per cent of 
our gross domestic product by 2030. We are committed 
to ensuring that as much of our humanitarian spending 
as possible is unearmarked and multi-annual, allowing 
our partners to plan effectively and channel resources 
where there is greatest need. We also believe strongly in 
a multilateral response and are strong supporters of the 
work of the United Nations Office for the Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  the  Central  Emergency 
Response Fund. The challenges we face are enormous 
in  both  scale  and  complexity.  It  is  only  by  working 
together that we can hope to address them.
Mr.  Vitrenko  (Ukraine):  The  delegation  of 
Ukraine  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by 
the observer of the European Union, and we would like 
to add a few points in our national capacity.
No country is immune to the risk of humanitarian 
emergencies, which often involve death, displacement 
or destruction on a large scale. In 2019, according to the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
(OCHA),  nearly  132  million  people  in  42  countries 
around  the  world  will  need  humanitarian  assistance, 
including  protection.  That 
is  why  strengthening 
international  cooperation  in  solving  humanitarian 
problems  should  be  one  of  the  most  important  core 
priorities  of  the  United  Nations.  By  responding  to 
humanitarian disasters quickly and effectively, United 
Nations agencies help to restore affected countries by 
forging a path towards recovery, growth and stability. 
Unfortunately,  however,  conflicts  will  continue  to  be 
the main drivers of humanitarian needs in 2019. Many 
humanitarian crises become protracted because limited 
progress  is  made  in  addressing  their  root  causes. 
Indeed, most humanitarian needs occur in the context 
of such crises. We therefore believe that political and 
peacekeeping solutions for protracted conflicts must be 
at the top of the United Nations agenda. Many modern 
conflicts,  including  the  ongoing  foreign  aggression 
against  my  country,  are  often  fuelled  other  States’ 
pursuit  of  their  own  political  interests.  They  are  not 
concerned  about  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the 
regions  affected  by  conflict,  and  their  incentive  to 
reach a peace deal continues to diminish.
Ukraine is a sponsor of all the draft humanitarian 
resolutions to be adopted today, and my country places 
special  emphasis  on  this  topic.  The  almost  five  years 
of  armed  conflict  caused  by  the  ongoing  Russian 
aggression  in  eastern  Ukraine  have  resulted  in  a 
protracted and complex humanitarian crisis. The United 
Nations  estimates  that  about  3.5  million  vulnerable 
Ukrainians affected by the Russian incursion will be in 
urgent need of humanitarian assistance and protection 
over  the  next  year.  More  than  1.5  million  Ukrainians 
are  registered  as  internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs). 
This area, according to the United Nations, is already 
one  of  the  most  mine-contaminated  in  the  world. 
There is also a whole range of threats that could lead 
to further deterioration of the protracted humanitarian 
crisis  in  the  region,  particularly  those  related  to 
critical 
the  Russian  aggression 
continues, it could also result in an environmental and 
humanitarian catastrophe, which is why the cessation 
of hostilities remains essential to enabling an effective 
humanitarian response and the protection of civilians 
and humanitarian personnel.
infrastructure.  If 
The Government of Ukraine continues to pursue its 
efforts to alleviate the suffering of Ukrainian citizens 
affected by the Russian aggression, particularly IDPs. 
We are currently focused on fixing the major systemic 
issues relating to the social integration and adaptation 
of  IDPs,  as  well  as  on  studying  best  practices  for 
integrating  them  into  their  host  communities.  In 
that  context,  the  Ukrainian  Cabinet  has  approved 
a  State  programme  for  recovery  and  peacebuilding 
in  Ukraine’s  eastern  regions  whose  main  goal  is  to 
promote  the  social  and  economic  development  of 
the  communities  concerned  and  to  strengthen  their 
capacities  and  social  stability.  We  have  developed  a 
modern, innovative online platform for economic and 
social recovery to facilitate the operational monitoring 
of  projects  aimed  at  the  restoration  of  infrastructure 
and  the  development  and  support  of  communities 
in  Government-controlled  areas.  It  will  enable  the 
authorities to respond promptly to the challenges and 
problems  of  the  population  in  eastern  Ukraine  and 
facilitate  assistance  from  international  humanitarian 
organizations.  The  Government  of  Ukraine  is  also 
coordinating demining programmes and implementing 
projects on humanitarian demining that inform citizens 
who live in areas near the line of contact about demining 
activities and the rules of conduct in situations involving 
explosive objects, as well as providing other assistance.
Ukraine  is  grateful  for  the  aid  provided  by  the 
United  Nations  system  to  millions  of  people  in  need. 
We  thank  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees, the World Food Programme, UNICEF, OCHA 
18-43824
19/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
and other agencies and bilateral partners, especially the 
European Union, the United States, Canada, Sweden, 
Norway,  Japan,  Estonia  and  many  other  countries,  as 
well as the International Committee of the Red Cross 
and  other  non-governmental  organizations,  for  their 
continued  vital  support  to  Ukraine.  In  particular,  we 
are grateful to OCHA for advancing its humanitarian 
response  plans,  which  will  offer  a  two-year  planning 
horizon for the first time. We hope that this approach 
will  meet  the  urgent  humanitarian  needs  of  the  most 
vulnerable  and  make  it  possible  to  reduce  them  by 
focusing on building resilience.
To complement those efforts, President Poroshenko 
of  Ukraine  has  launched  an  initiative  to  mobilize 
international  humanitarian  assistance  by  setting 
up  sponsorships  by  European  countries  of  specific 
cities  and  villages  affected  by  the  conflict.  The  aim 
is  to  strengthen  and  boost  their  reconstruction  and 
rehabilitation, and we call on our partners to enhance 
and embrace this initiative. In addition, as a result of 
Russia’s  recent  act  of  aggression  in  the  Sea  of  Azov, 
Ukraine  has  had  to  intensify  its  efforts  to  mitigate 
the  negative  effects  of  the  situation  on  the  social 
and  economic  development  of  the  Ukrainian  region 
around the Sea of Azov. We would greatly appreciate 
international assistance in this area as well, including 
through active engagement in concrete projects that we 
have already shared with our partners.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  once 
again that no humanitarian aid can replace long-term 
political and development solutions, which are crucial 
for people in crisis.
Mr. Kawamura (Japan): The world is dealing with 
a  trend  in  which  humanitarian  needs  are  increasing, 
in terms of both the funding required to remedy them 
and the people affected. The recently published Global 
Humanitarian  Overview  2019  details,  for  instance, 
the  increasing  numbers  of  people  being  displaced  by 
conflict, the high human cost of natural disasters and 
climate change, the rise in food insecurity and the fact 
that humanitarian crises are affecting more people for 
longer  periods  of  time.  As  I  said  in  June  during  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  humanitarian  affairs 
segment, timely assistance is needed more than ever if 
we are to respond to such complex humanitarian needs. 
At the United Nations summit on refugees and migrants, 
held  in  2016  (see  A/71/PV.3  et  seq.),  Prime  Minister 
Abe  stated  that  Japan  would  provide  an  assistance 
package  of  approximately  $2.8  billion  between  2016 
and 2018 in humanitarian and self-reliance assistance to 
refugees and migrants and assistance to host countries 
and communities. I am pleased to be able to inform the 
Assembly  that  our  contribution  has  already  exceeded 
that target.
As  we  face  growing  and  increasingly  complex 
humanitarian crises, we firmly believe that in order to 
address humanitarian needs effectively on the ground 
it is important to utilize assistance efficiently. Japan is 
very much of the view that the joint approach represented 
by establishing a humanitarian, development and peace 
nexus  is  relevant  in  that  regard,  and  we  hope  to  see 
more  examples  of  good  practices  in  the  field,  which 
we believe are essential for broadening support for this 
approach and promoting its implementation. I call on 
the relevant United Nations agencies to increase efforts 
to activate this nexus on the ground.
With  regard  to  the  issue  of  natural  disasters, 
which  can  cause  humanitarian  crises  and  exacerbate 
conflict situations, Japan places particular importance 
on disaster risk reduction. I welcome the references in 
some  of  the  draft  resolutions  introduced  today  to  the 
importance  of  implementing  the  Sendai  Framework 
for Disaster Risk Reduction for the period from 2015 
to  2030,  and  I  want  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
integrating  a  disaster  risk  reduction  perspective  into 
humanitarian assistance efforts in order to prevent new 
disaster risks and reduce existing ones.
Finally, I would like to inform all States Members of 
the United Nations that in August 2019 Japan will host 
the seventh Tokyo International Conference on African 
Development, in Yokohama. We ask for the international 
community’s  cooperation  in  strengthening  support 
for  Africa  with  a  view  to  reducing  its  vulnerabilities 
and  further  enhancing  its  resilience  so  as  to  promote 
its development.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that 
Japan  would  like  to  continue  strengthening  its  work 
on  humanitarian  assistance,  with  a  particular  focus 
on  humanitarian  needs  on  the  ground  and  effective 
approaches to get results and have an impact on people 
in  need,  and  on  placing  human  security  action  at  the 
centre of our response in doing so.
Ms. Melfald (Norway): The scale and complexity 
of  today’s  humanitarian  crises  are  unprecedented, 
and  we  must  therefore  step  up  our  collective  efforts 
on several fronts. We support the Secretary-General’s 
efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations,  strengthen 
20/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
international  cooperation  and  promote  partnerships 
that  will  deliver  more  sustainable  solutions  for  the 
millions  of  people  affected  by  humanitarian  crises. 
Stronger  partnerships  between  host  communities,  the 
United  Nations  system,  the  multilateral  development 
banks and civil society are critical to a more effective 
and  accountable  response.  The  draft  resolutions  we 
are  discussing  today  must  be  an  expression  of  those 
partnerships and a united response. Let me emphasize 
four points of particular importance.
First, humanitarian crises are increasingly defined 
by crises of protection and access. Parties to conflicts 
often  disregard  international  humanitarian  law  and 
humanitarian principles. Attacks on health facilities and 
schools  have  become  appallingly  commonplace.  The 
international  community  must  condemn  such  attacks 
decisively  and  take  effective  measures  against  them. 
We  must  fulfil  our  responsibility  to  protect  children 
from armed conflict, including by protecting schools, 
universities, students and teachers from attacks.
Secondly, we must ensure that the safety and human 
rights of women and children are respected. This should 
be  an  essential  dimension  of  humanitarian  responses 
and a priority. We should promote the participation of 
women and women’s organizations and step up efforts 
to combat sexual and gender-based violence.
Thirdly, we must redouble our efforts to address and 
reduce  forced  displacement.  With  the  global  compact 
on  refugees,  the  international  refugee  response  is 
undergoing a major reinvigoration. Internally displaced 
persons (IDPs), however, have so far not received the 
same  level  of  attention,  even  though  there  can  be  no 
question  that  the  need  for  humanitarian  assistance 
and  protection  is  increasing.  Strategies  for  solutions 
for  IDPs,  including  in  cooperation  with  development 
actors, should be a main concern for the United Nations 
as a whole in 2019 and beyond.
to 
increase 
Finally,  we  must  continue 
the 
effectiveness  of  humanitarian  assistance  and  place 
people at the centre of our response. Earlier this year, 
Norway  presented  its  new  humanitarian  strategy, 
which will form the basis of our humanitarian policy 
and financial support in the years to come. It includes 
more  flexible  funding  and  multi-year  commitments 
to  enable  a  predictable,  adaptive  and  cost-effective 
humanitarian  response.  We  are  a  strong  supporter  of 
the United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund 
and the country-based humanitarian pooled funds. The 
humanitarian system faces enormous challenges in the 
years ahead in a context of worsening and protracted 
crises  and  constrained  funds.  We  are  determined  to 
work together to meet those challenges.
Let me end by expressing our strong appreciation 
and  deep  gratitude  to  the  facilitators  of  the  various 
draft  resolutions,  who  have  invested  time  and  energy 
and  brought  Member  States  together  to  present  a 
strengthened and united response.
Mr. Hawke (New Zealand): Two years ago, when 
New Zealand last made a statement during the General 
Assembly’s discussion of humanitarian affairs (see A/71/
PV.56),  we  lamented  the  rise  in  global  humanitarian 
needs,  the  toll  that  the  conflict  in  Syria  was  having 
on  civilians  and  the  flagrant  violations  that  we  were 
seeing of international humanitarian law. Regrettably, 
in  2018  little  has  changed.  The  world’s  humanitarian 
needs are greater than ever and continue to be driven 
by a lack of the political will needed to prevent and end 
armed  conflicts  and  respect  the  rules  of  war  that  are 
expressly designed to limit human suffering.
The human cost exacted by armed conflict in 2018 
is deeply worrying. The fact that 14 million people are 
on  the  brink  of  famine  in  one  country  alone  should 
strongly motivate all of us here to strive harder to uphold 
human  dignity,  find  political  solutions  to  conflict 
and  commit  to  lasting,  inclusive  peace.  In  various 
recent  and  ongoing  armed  conflicts  we  are  seeing 
the  devastating  effects  of  the  use  of  heavy  explosive 
weapons in populated areas. Measures must always be 
taken  to  avoid  incidental  harm  to  civilians,  or  at  the 
very least minimize it. If the risks to civilians cannot 
be  sufficiently  mitigated,  the  use  of  such  weapons  in 
towns and cities must be avoided.
New  Zealand  remains  deeply  concerned  about 
the  continuing  disregard  for  the  protections  that 
humanitarian  personnel,  including  medical  workers, 
are  legally  entitled  to.  We  strongly  condemn  all  acts 
of  violence,  attacks  and  threats  against  humanitarian 
personnel,  as  well  as  attacks  on  hospitals  and 
health facilities.
While  armed  conflict  and  violence  continue  to 
drive global humanitarian needs, climate change is also 
rapidly  becoming  a  humanitarian  issue.  As  an  island 
nation in the Pacific, New Zealand is acutely aware of 
the threat of climate change. The Pacific is feeling the 
effects  of  a  changing  climate  right  now,  from  rising 
seas  to  a  greater  intensity  and  frequency  of  extreme 
18-43824
21/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
weather events such as cyclones, floods and droughts. 
Our humanity should be measured not just by how we 
respond  to  the  effects  of  climate  change  but  by  how 
earnestly  we  tackle  its  root  causes.  That  is  why  New 
Zealand  continues  to  champion  the  objectives  of  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change designed to enable 
the world to become carbon neutral in the second half 
of this century.
It  is  increasingly  important  to  ensure  that  the 
sexual  and  reproductive  rights  of  women  and  girls  in 
humanitarian settings are upheld based on this year’s 
humanitarian omnibus draft resolution (A/73/L.61). All 
people, including those in humanitarian settings, have 
the right to sexual and reproductive health. Sexual and 
reproductive  health  care  must  be  available  from  the 
onset  of  a  crisis.  New  Zealand  will  always  strongly 
advocate for sexual and reproductive health and rights 
for women and girls, because without it gender equality 
and women’s empowerment simply cannot be achieved. 
We are pleased that the humanitarian omnibus refers to 
the importance of involving people with disabilities in 
humanitarian decision-making processes. In particular, 
we  would  like  to  highlight  the  role  of  women  and 
young  people  with  disabilities  and  the  importance  of 
strengthening their opportunities to exercise leadership 
and decision-making capabilities.
As  we  head  into  2019,  the  global  humanitarian 
outlook 
is  worrisome,  with  ever-higher  numbers 
of  people  in  need  of  life-saving  assistance.  The 
humanitarian  system  must  continue 
to 
maintain its effectiveness and strengthen its efficiency. 
People  affected  by  conflict  and  disaster  look  to  us 
to  collectively  deliver  on  our  shared  commitment  to 
humankind and sustainable peace.
to  adapt 
Mr.  Awad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  Every  year  we  meet  again  to  reaffirm  our 
moral, humanitarian and legal commitment to providing 
purely  humanitarian  assistance  to  all  those  in  need 
without  discrimination,  politicization  or  blackmail, 
and  in  accordance  with  the  humanitarian  principles 
that we all believe in. In that context, I want to once 
again stress the commitment of the Government of the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic  to  its  firm  principled  position, 
which is to provide humanitarian assistance to all those 
in  need  without  discrimination  while  respecting  the 
guiding principles of the United Nations with regard to 
humanitarian assistance in emergencies, as provided for 
in resolution 46/182. I refer in particular to respect for 
national sovereignty and the role of the State concerned 
in  supervising 
the  distribution  of  humanitarian 
assistance on its territories, as well as for the principles 
of neutrality, integrity and non-politicization.
The behaviour of some Governments of States that 
are  sponsors  of  the  Assembly’s  humanitarian  draft 
resolutions, as well as of certain officials responsible 
for  coordinating  humanitarian  assistance,  foremost 
among  them  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs,  suggests  that  they  are  mostly 
interested  in  politicizing  humanitarian  action  and 
in  the  shameful  efforts  to  conceal  the  fundamental 
reasons  for  most  humanitarian  crises.  They  also 
exploit  humanitarian  resolutions  in  order  to  interfere 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  ignoring  some  of 
the  difficulties  that  the  humanitarian  field  is  dealing 
with, including the fact that funding for humanitarian 
activities at the United Nations has been reduced. All 
of that results in eliminating the human actions from 
their  content,  which  forces  us  to  conclude  that  the 
only solution to any humanitarian crisis must first and 
foremost  be  to  tackle  its  genuine  underlying  causes, 
as  well  as  its  repercussions,  without  politicization  or 
selectivity. With that in mind, I would like to make the 
following comments.
in 
the  draft 
Turning  first  to  the  issue  of  foreign  occupation, 
the insistence of certain delegations on excluding any 
references to foreign occupation as a situation requiring 
humanitarian  assistance 
resolution 
on 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance 
(A/73/L.61)  speaks  to  the  malevolent  reasons  for 
such  manoeuvres.  It  ensures  that  the  draft  resolution 
is  neither  comprehensive  nor  balanced  and  does  not 
respond to the concerns of most States Members of the 
United  Nations.  That  is  why  it  is  important  to  recall 
that Palestine, the occupied Syrian Golan and the other 
Arab  territories  occupied  since  1967  are  still  under 
Israeli occupation, which from time to time results in 
new humanitarian crises.
My second point is on the fight against terrorism. 
The fact that draft resolution A/73/61 refers to terrorist 
activities  as  one  of  the  main  factors  in  humanitarian 
crises — as well as the fact that after years of neglect, 
such  acts  were  condemned  in  resolution  71/129, 
adopted  two  years  ago,  on  the  safety  and  security  of 
humanitarian personnel — is an important step in the 
right  direction.  States  have  finally  recognized  that 
violence, poverty and conflict are not the only causes of 
migration, displacement and humanitarian crises, and 
that  terrorism  is  another  fundamental  factor  in  them. 
22/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
However, despite the importance of this step, it is still 
inadequate,  because  certain  States  continue  to  deny 
that  terrorism  is  the  fundamental  reason  for  various 
humanitarian crises, whether the subject is my country, 
Syria,  or  other  countries  of  our  region  and  beyond. 
The greatest proof of that is the terrorist hysteria that 
the  world  is  witnessing,  which  has  led  to  the  killing 
of  innocent  civilians  all  over  the  world.  We  firmly 
condemned  that  and  warned  against  its  consequences 
long ago.
My  delegation  wants  to  stress  once  again  that 
terrorism  is  the  fundamental  reason  for  the  suffering 
of the Syrian people, particularly women and children. 
Combating  it  requires  cooperating  and  coordinating 
fully  with  the  Syrian  Government,  which  has  been 
fighting  terrorism  on  behalf  of  the  world  and  in 
cooperation with its allies. We call on the United Nations 
to  put  pressure  on  Member  States  that  are  known  to 
be  supporting  armed  terrorist  groups  in  my  country 
to  end  their  sponsorship  and  support  of  such  groups, 
particularly Da’esh and the Al-Nusra Front, alongside 
any other terrorist organizations listed as terrorists by 
the Security Council. They continue to be the largest 
beneficiaries  of  humanitarian  assistance  through  the 
so-called  International,  Impartial  and  Independent 
Monitoring  Mechanism  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  which  is  politicized  and 
illegitimate  and  has  been  shown  to  be  an  ineffective 
failure, as well as a serious violation of my country’s 
sovereignty  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
My  third  point  is  on  the  grave  consequences  of 
unilateral  coercive  economic  measures.  The  United 
Nations  has  always  rejected  and  condemned  the 
imposition  of  such  measures,  which  are  illegitimate 
and  have  catastrophic  consequences  for  the  economy 
of  States  and  their  peoples’  welfare.  Everyone  knows 
that  the  Secretary-General  issues  an  annual  report 
on  the  economic  and  social  consequences  of  such 
measures.  The  General  Assembly  adopts  consensus 
resolutions  every  year  that  clearly  condemn  the 
imposition  of  such  measures.  We  also  have  a  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  negative  impact  of  such  measures 
who  closely  follows  their  effects  and  keeps  Member 
States  consistently  informed  on  the  illegitimacy  and 
illegality  of  their  imposition  outside  the  purview  of 
the  Security  Council.  Regrettably,  however,  some 
Governments continue to ignore these facts, rejecting 
any  reference  in  humanitarian  resolutions  to  the 
negative  effects  of  such  measures  on  humanitarian 
assistance.  To  this  day  such  measures  continue  to  be 
imposed,  outside  the  purview  of  the  United  Nations, 
on Syria and many other States, by the United States, 
the  European  Union  and  others,  despite  continued 
calls  and  demands  from  the  international  community 
that  they  be  ended  forthwith.  They  have  catastrophic 
effects  on  Syria’s  economy  and  Syrians’  livelihoods, 
they  have  led  to  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Syrians’ 
migration  from  their  homeland  and  have  hampered 
both health and humanitarian response plans in Syria. 
That unquestionably runs counter to the Charter of the 
United Nations and international legitimacy and to the 
lofty goals of sustainable development that we all seek 
to  achieve.  It  constitutes  an  act  of  aggression  against 
the welfare of the Syrian people and their right to live 
a normal life.
Ms. Nemroff (United States of America): Last week 
the United Nations released the Global Humanitarian 
Overview  2019.  The  facts  on  the  humanitarian  needs 
around the world are sobering. More than 135 million 
people  across  the  world  will  need  humanitarian 
assistance next year. The United Nations estimates that 
at  least  $22  billion  is  needed  to  meet  the  most  basic 
needs of vulnerable people around the world.
Conflict remains the main driver of humanitarian 
needs.  Protracted  violence  will  force  people  to  flee 
from their homes, deny them access to sufficient food 
and rob them of their means of making a living. That 
includes  situations  where  Governments  utterly  fail 
to  uphold  and  systematically  violate  their  primary 
responsibility  to  protect  the  rights  and  well-being 
of  their  citizens.  Food  insecurity  is  also  rising,  with 
the  number  of  people  experiencing  crisis-level  food 
insecurity  increasing  from  80  million  to  124  million 
people in only two years.
In the face of that dire need, the United States is 
proud to be a global leader in humanitarian assistance. In 
fiscal year 2018, the United States remained the world’s 
single  largest  humanitarian  donor  and  provided  more 
than  $8  billion  in  humanitarian  assistance  globally. 
While  there  remain  critical  gaps  in  humanitarian 
funding, we are reassured to see other donor countries 
increasing  their  contributions.  The  year  2018  is  on 
track as one of record-high humanitarian funding, and 
we commend the spirit and reality of burden-sharing.
In addition to critical financial resources, we must 
continue to coordinate our efforts across the pillars of 
18-43824
23/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
our humanitarian, development, political and security 
work.  By  drawing  on  our  reach,  our  influence  and 
our  subject-matter  expertise,  we  work  in  partnership 
to  forge  effective  strategies  to  resolve  problems  and 
advocate  at  the  highest  level  to  support  response 
operations  on  the  ground,  as  well  as  to  elevate  the 
needs and voices of the displaced. That effort includes 
our responsibility to press Governments and parties to 
conflict to uphold other obligations under international 
law. That also includes our long-standing work to keep 
the  humanitarian  consequences  of  crises,  such  as  in 
Yemen,  South  Sudan  and  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  firmly  on  the  agenda  of  the  Security 
Council and to ensure that we are still a voice for those 
often forgotten.
In  that  context,  through  these  draft  resolutions, 
the  General  Assembly  can,  and  should,  send  an 
important  message  of  concern  and  solidarity 
to 
the  many  courageous  people  who  risk  their  lives 
to  deliver  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  millions 
of  people  around  the  world  suffering  as  a  result  of 
natural disasters, armed conflicts and other crises. In 
recent years, there have been far too many casualties 
and  deaths  among  humanitarian  personnel  who  were 
working  to  reach  people  in  need.  We  are  grateful  for 
their service, compassion and, in some cases, ultimate 
sacrifice.  We  also  call  on  Member  States  and  parties 
to  conflict  to  comply  with  their  obligations  under 
international  humanitarian  law,  including  the  right 
of  civilians  to  assistance,  and  to  take  every  action  to 
respect the operational independence and neutrality of 
humanitarian organizations.
The  draft  resolutions  that  we  will  be  adopting 
today  (A/73/L.18/Rev.1,  A/73/L.51,  A/73/L.53  and 
A/73/L.61)  reaffirm  the  vital  function  of  the  United 
Nations in responding to humanitarian need around the 
globe. They highlight the steps that the United Nations 
and other relief organizations can take to better assist 
those in need and to ensure that scarce resources stretch 
as far as possible. The draft resolutions also articulate 
how Member States can better support the humanitarian 
community’s  life-saving  work  more  effectively  and 
reaffirm  the  importance  of  international  law  and  the 
standards  meant  to  protect  those  affected  by  conflict 
and disasters.
The United States remains committed to standing 
by  people  in  their  time  of  greatest  need,  be  they 
suffering due to conflict, such as in Syria, or surviving 
and  recovering  from  the  impact  of  natural  disasters. 
The  United  States  believes  that  women  should  have 
equal access to health care, including in humanitarian 
emergencies. The United States is not only the world’s 
single largest humanitarian donor but also the world’s 
largest  donor  of  bilateral  assistance  for  reproductive 
health and voluntary family planning. We believe that 
in humanitarian emergencies, women’s access to health 
care is life-saving and should be available from the onset 
of  an  emergency,  whenever  possible.  We  also  believe 
that it should not include abortion or the promotion of 
abortion  as  a  method  of  family  planning.  Therefore, 
in order to address that concern, we have proposed an 
amendment to operative paragraph 59 of draft resolution 
A/73/L.18/Rev.1,  entitled  “International  cooperation 
on  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  field  of  natural 
disasters,  from  relief  to  development”.  Similarly,  in 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.61,  entitled  “Strengthening  of 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of  the  United  Nations”,  my  delegation  has  proposed 
amendments  to  operative  paragraphs  58  and  59.  The 
amendments  are  contained  in  documents  A/73/L.64 
and A/73/L.65, respectively.
The United States remains firmly committed to its 
multifaceted role as a leader in humanitarian diplomacy 
and action around the world. We will continue to pursue 
the  improved  coordination  and  efficient  delivery  of 
humanitarian  aid  for  the  millions  across  the  globe  in 
need of relief from conflict and other tragedies.
Mr.  Rahman  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh  attaches 
great importance to United Nations humanitarian and 
emergency relief assistance and remains supportive of 
international efforts to help build resilient societies and 
nations in order to respond to humanitarian challenges. 
Indeed,  resolution  46/182  remains  the  cornerstone 
of  all  such  efforts.  Constructive  engagement  and 
role  of  national  Governments 
the  coordinating 
are 
in 
instrumental 
international 
humanitarian assistance.
facilitating 
International  humanitarian  assistance 
should 
adhere to the overarching and fundamental principles 
of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. 
We  underscore  the  need  for  better  coherence  and 
coordination  among  Member  States,  United  Nations 
agencies and other relevant stakeholders in promoting 
the  spirit  of  working  together  towards  one  humanity. 
The unwarranted politicization of humanitarian issues, 
and  thereby  the  creation  of  hindrances  to  delivering 
life-saving  assistance  when  it  is  needed  the  most, 
24/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
must  be  avoided.  Humanitarian  responses  should  be 
predictable, faster, timely and more effective.
In recent years, we have witnessed continued high 
demand  for  humanitarian  relief  and  assistance  across 
the  globe.  There  are  135  million  people  in  need  and 
an amount of $23.5 billion is required. Because of our 
political commitment to the global good, Bangladesh is 
substantially increasing its modest contribution to the 
Central Emergency Response Fund.
We believe that attaining sustainable development 
through  the  inclusive  engagement  of  relevant  actors 
could  be  an  effective  solution  to  many  humanitarian 
crises, including those related to forced displacement. 
The  international  community  needs  to  consider  and 
undertake  development  activities  with  a  focus  on 
building resilience and ultimately reducing dependency 
on humanitarian aid. It is imperative to ensure better 
cooperation  between  humanitarian  and  development 
actors  to  enable  a  smooth  transition  from  relief  to 
development. The underlying root causes that adversely 
impact  the  effectiveness  of  humanitarian  assistance 
need to be addressed in a holistic manner. There is a 
need for discretion in apportioning financing support 
for  humanitarian  and  development  work  without 
compromising their respective priorities.
recognizes 
the 
importance 
Bangladesh 
of 
transition  from  emergency  response  to  preparedness 
and  resilience-building.  In  full  respect  for  national 
conditions  and  actual  needs  on  the  ground,  the 
international  community  should  develop  mechanisms 
to  provide  enhanced,  sustainable, 
flexible  and 
multi-year  financing  support  and  related  expertise, 
technologies  and  products.  We  also  acknowledge  the 
centrality  of  the  role  of  women  as  first  responders 
and  the  need  to  further  strengthen  gender-responsive 
policy development concerning disaster-risk reduction 
and mitigation.
The  Assembly  is  perhaps  aware  of  the  Rohingya 
humanitarian crisis, one of the fastest growing crises 
of  its  kind.  It  has  been  thrust  upon  Bangladesh  and 
means  that  we  are  now  sheltering  approximately 
1.1 million forcibly displaced Rohingyas who fled into 
our  territory  from  Myanmar’s  Rakhine  state.  Within 
our  limited  capacity,  we  are  doing  our  utmost  to 
provide them with humanitarian support, but that is not 
enough. We acknowledge the support of international 
humanitarian  mechanisms, 
the  relevant 
United  Nations  agencies,  in  addressing  the  critical 
including 
needs  of  the  Rohingyas.  We  also  urge  them  to  come 
forward  to  share  the  burden  and  the  responsibility. 
Unimpeded  humanitarian  access  to  Rakhine  state 
would also be critical.
Bangladesh  remains  concerned  about  the  denial 
of  humanitarian  access  in  many  conflict  situations. 
We condemn the indiscriminate armed attacks against 
humanitarian  personnel  and  convoys,  medical  and 
peacekeeping  personnel  and  civilian  infrastructure 
essential to humanitarian operations. We urge all parties 
to  conflicts  to  refrain  from  such  attacks,  blockades 
and  impediments.  We  also  emphasize  the  importance 
of  evidence-based  information  to  ensure  probity  and 
accountability  in  the  event  of  any  reported  violence. 
We  noted  with  appreciation  the  improvements  that 
have  been  made  by  the  United  Nations  humanitarian 
system to address sexual and gender-based violence in 
humanitarian emergencies.
As  a  climate-vulnerable  and  disaster-prone 
country,  Bangladesh  continues  to  make  substantive 
investments  in  disaster-risk  reduction,  prevention, 
mitigation  and  relief,  building  on  lessons  learned  as 
well  as  international  best  practices.  In  line  with  our 
commitment  to  share  our  home-grown  expertise  and 
innovations with others in a comparable situation, we 
have  made  efforts  to  stand  by  the  disaster-affected 
peoples of neighbouring countries in recent times.
The Government of Bangladesh has established a 
national committee on international humanitarian law 
to ensure further dissemination and awareness-building 
among our people, with the support of the International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross.  At  the  international 
level, we remain committed to promoting advocacy for 
addressing the humanitarian needs of those displaced 
as  a  result  of  climate  change,  especially  in  cross-
border contexts. Currently, Bangladesh is Chair of the 
Platform on Disaster Displacement, formerly known as 
the  Nansen  Initiative.  We  look  forward  to  enhancing 
coordination and coherence among the relevant United 
Nations  entities  and  other  stakeholders  in  further 
promoting dialogues on that emerging issue.
In  conclusion,  we  thank  all  the  facilitators  for 
their  diligent  work  on  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.18/
Rev.1, A/73/L.51, A/73/L.53 and A/73/L.61, which my 
delegation is pleased to support.
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
of the Sovereign Order of Malta.
18-43824
25/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
Mr.  De  Rojas  (Sovereign  Order  of  Malta):  The 
Sovereign  Order  of  Malta  would  like  to  express  its 
gratitude for the opportunity to take the floor today. As 
a 900-year-old humanitarian organization with projects 
in 120 countries that is committed to upholding human 
dignity and caring for the most vulnerable, we appreciate 
the occasion to join in thanking and advocating for all 
those who, on a daily basis and all over the globe, help 
those who are wounded, sick, needy, marginalized and 
forgotten.  Let  me  also  congratulate  the  Assembly  on 
concluding the discussions on this year’s humanitarian 
draft 
(A/73/L.18/Rev.1,  A/73/L.51, 
A/73/L.53  and  A/73/L.61).  It  is  a  great  achievement 
that, year after year, differences are increasingly being 
put aside in view of the suffering of so many people all 
over the world.
resolutions 
This  year  particularly  has  again  shown  us 
how  badly  humanitarian  assistance  is  needed.  The 
Global  Humanitarian  Overview  2019  and  the  World 
Humanitarian Data and Trends 2018, recently compiled 
by  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs, clearly show that humanitarian 
crises  have  been  increasing  in  number  and  duration. 
Between 2005 and 2017, their number almost doubled, 
and they now last an average of seven years or longer. 
Despite  global  development  gains,  one  in  every  70 
people  around  the  world  is  caught  up  in  crisis  and 
urgently  needs  humanitarian  assistance.  Next  year, 
humanitarian needs will remain extremely high, with 
up  to  132  million  people  in  42  countries  around  the 
world  in  need  of  assistance  and  protection,  as  has 
indeed been said by many speakers before me. In view 
of those alarming rising numbers, we should not relent 
in  our  efforts  to  foster  dependable  cooperation,  long-
term  commitment  and  credible  accountability  in  the 
provision of international humanitarian assistance.
It  cannot  be  repeated  enough:  violations  of 
international  humanitarian 
law  must  cease.  This 
year  alone,  700  health-care  workers  were  attacked 
and  230  health  facilities  destroyed  or  damaged. 
The  ability  of  entities  such  as  the  Order  of  Malta  to 
effectively provide neutral, impartial and non-political 
humanitarian assistance fundamentally depends on the 
safety and security of our personnel and of those who 
seek their help. Deliberate attacks on hospitals, schools 
and humanitarian supply chains and similar crimes are 
deeply  worrying  and  simply  not  acceptable.  Equally 
crucial is the need for rapid and unimpeded access to 
populations in need. We were heartened to see that, in 
Likewise,  we  are  pleased 
to  see 
this year’s negotiations, a significant number of States 
continued to urge for improvements on that matter.
that 
the 
international community has begun a dialogue on how 
counter-terrorism  measures  can  sometimes  adversely 
affect  the  provision  of  humanitarian  aid.  We  urge 
all  to  ensure  that  those  policies  do  not  bring  about 
undesired  negative  effects,  for  example  by  unduly 
restricting access to certain areas and groups or even 
by  criminalizing  medical  and  humanitarian  activities 
and staff.
All  of  us  here  at  the  United  Nations  have  the 
immense  privilege  to  lead  our  daily  lives  in  relative 
peace  and  security,  even  though  we  should  be  united 
in the humbling recognition that not much separates us 
from the more than 130 million people already in need of 
humanitarian assistance. At any given moment, armed 
conflict, natural disasters or climate change could make 
us one of them. Let us therefore not tire in our efforts 
to improve the legal frameworks, political climate and 
implementation of international humanitarian law in a 
spirit of true international cooperation and solidarity.
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
of the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Mr. Mardini (International Committee of the Red 
Cross):  States  have  a  strong  track  record  of  working 
together in the spirit of humanitarian multilateralism. 
This month, States gathered in Russia to mark the 150th 
anniversary of the Declaration of St. Petersburg to the 
effect  of  prohibiting  the  use  of  certain  projectiles  in 
wartime. Next year, we mark the seventieth anniversary 
of the Geneva Conventions of 1949.
The  humanitarian  rules  of  the  four  Conventions 
of  1949  were  negotiated  on  the  basis  of  people’s 
experience of armed conflict as combatants, civilians 
and  persons  hors  de  combat.  Millions  of  people 
enduring  armed  conflict  today  need  that  tradition  of 
humanitarian  multilateralism  to  continue.  Today  we 
draw  attention  to  three  priority  humanitarian  needs 
that States must fulfil.
First, all States must ensure the physical security 
and  safety  of  civilians.  That  is  especially  important 
for  any  State  supporting  other  States  or  non-State 
armed  groups  in  coalition  warfare.  States  that  supply 
belligerents with weapons have a special responsibility 
to  ensure  respect  for  international  humanitarian  law. 
The position of such States must be strong: they must 
26/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
not transfer arms when serious violations are manifestly 
occurring or where there is a substantial risk that they 
will be committed.
Secondly,  States  must  prevent  people 
from 
going  missing,  clarify  their  fate  and  provide  answers 
to  families.  Today  we  are  seeing  a  global  crisis  of 
missing  people.  The  International  Committee  of 
the  Red  Cross  (ICRC)  is  dealing  with  an  enormous 
caseload of missing persons, some 100,000 people, and 
that is only the tip of the iceberg. We call on States to 
fulfil their obligations with regard to preventing people 
from  going  missing  in  armed  conflict,  including  in 
places of detention. We call on States to take advantage 
of  the  opportunity  offered  by  the  ICRC  missing 
persons  project  to  tackle  that  challenge  collectively 
and decisively.
Thirdly, States must recognize that armed conflict 
damages  mental  as  well  as  physical  health.  In  that 
regard, we seek a multilateral surge. Several States are 
already championing a greater humanitarian response. 
We  ask  all  States  to  contribute  their  expertise  and 
resources to tackle the global challenge.
those 
Each  of 
three  priority 
issues  has  a 
multi-generational dimension. The conduct of hostilities 
that  ignores  international  humanitarian  law  destroys 
societies  and  deprives  people  of  homes,  livelihoods, 
health  and  education  for  generations.  Failing  to  seek 
out  missing  persons  or  to  address  mental  ill-health 
resulting  from  conflict  can  exacerbate  social  and 
political tensions.
Finally, 
in  order  for 
impartial  humanitarian 
organizations  such  as  the  ICRC  to  work  with  States 
to  address  those  and  other  pressing  humanitarian 
needs,  we  need  the  trust  and  cooperation  of  States 
in  order  to  work  freely  and  effectively.  Political  and 
security responses to new global threats are having a 
serious effect on the ability of impartial humanitarian 
organizations 
to  consistently  provide  principled 
humanitarian action.
challenge 
to  address 
impartial 
The  ICRC  urges  all  States 
to  neutral, 
the 
pressing 
and 
independent  humanitarian  action  posed  by  counter-
terrorism  measures  and  sanctions  regimes.  Impartial 
humanitarian  organizations  cannot  reach  out 
to 
people  in  a  timely  and  effective  way  if  humanitarian 
action  is  at  risk  of  criminalization  or  is  hindered  by 
complex  sanctions  procedures  and  counter-terrorism 
measures.  The  ICRC  understands  and  respects  the 
sovereign right of States to safeguard their legitimate 
security concerns, including through counter-terrorism 
measures.  However,  such  measures,  must  be,  and 
remain,  consistent  with  international  law,  including 
international humanitarian law.
to 
legislation 
run  counter 
Increasingly,  strict  funding  conditions  and  rigid 
counter-terrorism 
the 
commitments  that  States  have  made  to  respecting 
long-established  humanitarian  principles.  That,  in 
turn,  can  risk  undermining  the  trust  of  affected 
people  and  of  parties  to  conflict  and  can  render  the 
provision  of  principled  humanitarian  action  more 
precarious.  We  call  on  States  to  ensure  that  national 
legislation  and  international  regimes  on  counter-
terrorism and sanctions include exemption clauses for 
the  humanitarian  activities  of  impartial  humanitarian 
organizations.  The  ICRC  stands  ready  to  offer  its 
humanitarian  and  legal  expertise  in  the  development 
of  new  rules  and  regulations  pertaining  to  counter-
terrorism issues.
The  challenge  of  preventing,  responding  to  and 
recovering  from  conflict  is  immense,  but  we  already 
have many of the laws, organizations and operational 
tools  at  our  disposal 
to  achieve  a  sustainable 
humanitarian  impact  for  millions  of  people.  States 
have an impressive record of humanitarian cooperation 
in law, policy and practice. The choice to respect the 
law, reduce suffering and preserve human dignity is a 
political one that rests with Member States. We call on 
all States to recommit to humanitarian multilateralism 
at this critical juncture.
The  ICRC  and  the  International  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Movement  stand  ready  to  play  its  part. 
We look forward to meeting with States on these and 
other  important  humanitarian  priorities  at  the  thirty-
third  International  Conference  of  the  Red  Cross  and 
Red Crescent in Geneva next year.
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red 
Crescent Societies.
Ms. Ghukasyan (International Federation of Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  On  behalf  of  the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies  (IFRC)  and  its  191  national  societies,  allow 
me  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  opportunity  to 
speak during this important debate.
18-43824
27/29
A/73/PV.53 
14/12/2018
In  2015,  the  world  pledged  to  leave  no  one 
behind  as  part  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  but  humanitarian  needs  are  growing  at 
an extraordinary speed and are outpacing the resources 
that we have available to respond to them. That makes 
it increasingly difficult for humanitarian organizations 
to meet the commitments of the 2030 Agenda. Despite 
all our efforts, millions of people are still left behind in 
humanitarian response.
This year we issued our flagship report, the World 
Disasters Report 2018, under the theme “Leaving no one 
behind in humanitarian response”. The report describes 
how,  out  of  the  134  million  people  who  required 
humanitarian  assistance  in  2018,  the  international 
community reached approximately 90 million people, 
leaving a gap of 29 per cent. The report explores how 
various people are left behind in humanitarian response 
and highlights particular groups that are not receiving 
the assistance that they need. It calls for better attention 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  people  in  greatest  need 
receive  assistance,  including  improved  assistance  to 
persons with disabilities, the elderly, people who live 
in  remote  areas  and  are  difficult  to  reach  due  to  the 
limited  humanitarian  presence  and  access,  those  who 
do not have identity documents, survivors of sexual and 
gender-based violence, irregular migrants and victims 
of urban violence.
The report also identifies five fatal flaws that allow 
so  many  people  to  be  overlooked.  Too  many  affected 
people are out of sight, out of reach, left out of the loop, 
find themselves in crises where there is no more money 
or  are  deemed  to  be  out  of  scope  because  they  are 
suffering in ways that are not seen as the responsibility 
of the humanitarian sector. That calls for a change in 
traditional  approaches  to  humanitarian  assistance  in 
order to minimize the risk of vulnerable people being 
left  behind  by  giving  a  number  of  recommendations. 
Allow me to focus on three such recommendations that 
are relevant to today’s debate.
First,  the  international  humanitarian  community 
should  do  more  to  recognize  and  support  local 
humanitarian  action.  The 
importance  of  more 
localized  aid  through  empowered  local  action  has 
been considerably boosted on the international policy 
agenda  since  the  World  Humanitarian  Summit  in 
2016.  However,  our  intention  of  and  commitment  to 
supporting  local  actors  that  have  been  previously 
expressed  have  not  yet  become  a  reality.  That  clearly 
demonstrates  the  need  to  reconsider  our  working 
model,  which  fails  to  recognize  and  embrace  locally 
led  response  and  action.  For  the  localization  agenda 
to become a reality, international humanitarian actors 
need  to  support  and  complement  existing  national 
coordination mechanisms and increase efforts to engage 
local actors in international coordination mechanisms. 
The importance of promoting a flexible humanitarian 
ecosystem that is inclusive of a broad range of actors 
and strengths must be acknowledged.
Secondly,  increased  investment  and  action  are 
needed  in  climate-smart  laws  and  policies,  targeting 
the most vulnerable and marginalized. Climate change 
is not a new concern. Humanitarian actors, including 
the IFRC, have been dealing with the increasing risks 
for years, addressing them largely through their work to 
support people before, during and after crises. However, 
the  rising  risk  of  climate  change,  which  has  been 
reinforced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change’s  newly  released  special  report  on  Global 
Warming  of  1.5°C,  requires  a  scale-up  of  adaptation 
actions  and  greater  cooperation  among  humanitarian 
and  development  actors,  as  well  as  with  climate 
scientists,  donors  and  other  relevant  actors.  There  is 
a  need  for  ongoing  reflection  on  the  implications  of 
climate  science  for  those  that  are  most  affected  and 
vulnerable to the consequences of climate change.
There  is  also  a  need  to  address  the  financing  of 
humanitarian action, in particular for scaling up early 
warning  and  early  action  and  anticipatory,  forecast-
based financing. In that regard, as an active implementer 
and promoter of anticipatory programming since 2014, 
the  IFRC  particularly  welcomes  the  recognition  in 
this  year’s  draft  resolution  (A/73/L.61)  of  the  need  to 
further explore and scale up forecast-based financing 
mechanisms in humanitarian response with the overall 
objective  of  anticipating,  preventing,  if  possible,  and 
reducing the suffering and destruction caused by severe 
weather conditions.
Thirdly,  all  humanitarian  actors  should  adopt  a 
community-centred, participatory approach. It is hard 
to leave people behind if one is there in the community 
with  them  in  the  first  place.  That  is  why  the  report 
makes  the  case  for  local  action  to  be  carried  out  by 
local humanitarian workers who live and work among 
the people whom they serve, are from the communities 
and are there to make the last mile their first mile.
28/29 
18-43824
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.53
The  key  for  the  coming  years  will  be  to  link  the 
global to the local, as global problems such as climate 
change  add  significantly  to  the  risks  that  we  face. 
Those  problems  continue  to  materialize  at  the  local 
level, and we need to understand the local realities to 
find  the  right  solutions  to  reduce  vulnerability.  The 
IFRC  and  its  191  national  societies,  through  their 
power to penetrate communities, will continue to focus 
on leaving the communities we work for stronger and 
better able to withstand the shocks that they face.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item  for  this  morning. 
Action  on 
the  draft  resolution  and  amendments  
ubmitted  under  this  agenda  item  will  be  taken  this 
afternoon in this Hall at 3 p.m.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
18-43824
29/29
