United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
52nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 13 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Beleffi  (San 
Marino), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 10
Return or restitution of cultural property to the 
countries of origin
Report by the Secretary-General (A/73/390)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.54)
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Greece  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.54.
Mrs.  Theofili  (Greece):  It  is  my  honour  to  speak 
today on behalf of the sponsors of the draft resolution 
entitled “Return or restitution of cultural property to the 
countries of origin”, contained in document A/73/L.54.
At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General  and  the  Director-General  of  UNESCO  for 
the  relevant  comprehensive  report  (A/73/390),  which 
outlines  the  most  significant  developments  that  have 
taken place in the aforementioned field during the past 
three years.
In 2015, the General Assembly adopted resolution 
70/76, entitled “Return or restitution of cultural property 
to the countries of origin”, by consensus. Three years 
later,  significant  developments  have  occurred,  which 
this draft resolution aims to reflect in a thorough and 
balanced way.
 (Ecuador)
Over  the  past  few  decades,  the  rise  in  the 
international  cross-border  movement  of  cultural 
objects,  the  increase  in  international  organized  crime 
involving cultural objects and the tendency to launder 
money  through  the  antiquities  market,  including  the 
selling  of  stolen  cultural  objects  at  auction,  including 
in  online  auctions,  have  resulted  in  an  increase  of 
illicit  trafficking  in  cultural  property.  Moreover,  of 
late  cultural  property  has  been  targeted  more  than 
ever  before  due  to  the  recent  armed  conflicts  in  the 
Middle  East  and  elsewhere.  It  is  noteworthy  that  one 
of the consequences of those conflicts is the looting of 
antiquities, as well as their trafficking and trade through 
the illegal market, notably by terrorist groups, with the 
aim of financing terrorism. As a result, a large number 
of artefacts supposedly ended up in antiquities markets, 
while  the  Internet  has  led  to  an  immense  increase  in 
the  possibilities  for  that  illegal  trade  through  online 
sales of trafficked cultural property. The fight against 
illicit  trafficking  in  cultural  property  is  therefore  a 
key  element  in  the  strategy  for  drying  up  the  sources 
of  any  illicit  profit-making,  including  the  financing 
of terrorism.
The  draft  resolution  under  consideration  today 
expresses  deep  concern  about  the  loss,  destruction, 
theft,  pillage,  illicit  removal  or  misappropriation  of 
cultural  property  from  archaeological  and  other  sites, 
in  particular  in  areas  of  armed  conflict,  including 
occupied  territories.  At  the  same  time,  it  recalls  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions, which highlight, 
among  other  things,  the  direct  linkage  between  illicit 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-43660 (E)
*1843660*
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
trafficking  in  cultural  property  and  the  financing 
of terrorism.
Furthermore,  the  draft  resolution  recognizes  the 
leading  role  of  UNESCO  in  the  fight  against  illicit 
trafficking  in  cultural  property,  including  its  specific 
mandate  within  the  context  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2199 (2015). That is very important because 
the aim of that resolution is to cover not only the fight 
against  illicit  trafficking  in  cultural  property  but 
also,  most  importantly,  its  return  or  restitution  to  the 
countries of origin.
Capacity-building  is  critical  to  the  success  of 
the  efforts  undertaken  with  regard  to  the  return  or 
restitution of cultural property to the countries of origin. 
Criminal prosecution, customs and border controls are 
indispensable, but so are preventive measures to block 
the  laundering  of  looted  objects  through  art  markets, 
including  a  proper  framework  for  restitution.  In  that 
context, the draft resolution underlines the critical role 
of UNESCO, the United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime and INTERPOL, while at the same time focusing 
on  the  added  value  of  stolen  works  of  art  databases, 
provided by the respective international organizations, 
as a tool in the fight against illicit trafficking in cultural 
property, of which all Member States should make use.
The  international  community  shares  a  common 
responsibility to protect cultural property, in times of 
both peace and war. Cultural property is not simply the 
testimony of a nation’s path. Cultural heritage, as the 
mirror of a country’s history, is thus at the very core of 
its existence, since it represents not only specific values 
and traditions but also the unique way in which a people 
perceives the world. That is why cultural property must 
be protected against any illicit act and must be restored 
to its historic environment, where it can best inspire the 
collective conscience of humanity. That is precisely the 
reason for which the objectives of this draft resolution 
should leave no State indifferent.
Mr. Said (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): My country’s 
delegation  took  note  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the return or restitution of cultural property 
to  the  countries  of  origin  (A/73/390),  submitted  in 
cooperation with the Director-General of UNESCO.
We would like to stress that the issue of the return 
or  restitution  of  cultural  property  to  the  countries  of 
origin as a result of illicit appropriation includes many 
thorny and complex matters. However, those difficulties 
should not deter concerted efforts by the United Nations 
and other international governmental organizations to 
continue their coordination with UNESCO within their 
mandates  and  in  cooperation  with  Member  States  to 
resolve that important issue. The objective is to return 
cultural property to the countries of origin because it 
represents the historical heritage of the countries from 
which it was looted.
Cultural  property  is  of  great  significance  among 
peoples and nations because it constitutes part of their 
history and is indicative of their deep-rooted origin and 
cultures. Our discussion of this item is therefore seen as 
a new campaign against States and individuals to return 
what  they  took  or  plundered,  such  as  manuscripts, 
sculptures and monuments. We note at this session that 
the report under consideration indicates that UNESCO 
attaches increasing importance to the issue of cultural 
property and its protection. In that regard, my country’s 
delegation  commends  UNESCO  and  its  Director-
General  for  their  efforts  to  launch  awareness-raising 
campaigns and training courses at the international level 
and  for  their  keen  interest  in  increasing  international 
awareness towards cultural property and in helping to 
return it to its countries of origin.
I would also like to note the international efforts to 
support  Libyan  professionals  and  cultural  institutions 
through UNESCO and in cooperation with the General 
Authority for Monuments in Libya and the International 
Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration 
of  Cultural  Property.  International  experts  have  held 
meetings  with  a  view  to  protecting  Libya’s  cultural 
heritage,  as  well  as  preventing  its  illicit  trafficking, 
while  providing 
to  secure 
collections at risk in the west and east of the country.
the  necessary  means 
Like other States, over the past five centuries Libya 
has  been  subject  to  great  plundering  of  its  cultural 
heritage.  The  circumstances  that  the  Libyan  people 
experienced  under  the  colonists  paved  the  way  for 
the  organized  plundering  of  Libyan  cultural  heritage 
from antiquity. We see our statues, antiques, valuable 
manuscripts  and  handicrafts  in  famous  museums, 
documentation centres and palaces in Asia, Europe and 
the  Americas.  They  demonstrate  the  innovation  and 
imagination of the Libyan people, who left a marvellous 
cultural heritage. The colonists dispersed and destroyed 
them,  while  keeping  some  in  their  archaeological 
collections.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  in  the  last  quarter 
of  the  nineteenth  century,  165  original  carvings  were 
plundered from the archaeological site of Shahat town 
in eastern Libya. Hundreds of pieces of pottery, as well 
2/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
as thousands of rare gold and bronze coins of different 
sizes, were also looted.
Historical records show that in 1860 alone scores of 
huge pillars and other marvellous artefacts were stolen 
from  the  city  of  Leptis  Magna  in  western  Libya  and 
moved  to  a  European  country,  where  they  were  used 
in  the  gardens  of  a  certain  king.  The  same  sources 
indicate that a European removed 350 alabaster pillars 
and thousands of other small pieces of artefacts from 
the  same  town,  while  another  European  removed  600 
prehistoric  objects  from  the  city  of  Benghazi  alone. 
They are currently located in a European museum.
Through  UNESCO,  the  United  Nations  has  tried 
to  ensure  the  return  or  restitution  of  works  of  art, 
antiquities and manuscripts to their country of origin. 
However,  it  is  clear  from  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  that  progress  in  that  area  has  been  limited 
and  that  threats  to  cultural  heritage  are  increasing, 
regrettably taking new forms and being used to finance 
organized  crime  and  terrorist  groups,  as  indicated  in 
Security Council resolution 2199 (2015).
It  is  of  great  concern  that  most  countries  in 
possession  of  such  treasures  have  not  yet  taken  any 
practical measures to implement the General Assembly 
resolutions  pertaining  to  that  item.  Libya  was  among 
those that supported its inclusion on the agenda of the 
General  Assembly  in  view  of  the  great  importance 
that my country attaches to the restitution of cultural 
property to its country of origin. Given its vast cultural 
heritage and as a victim of such organized plundering 
of its cultural treasures, Libya is determined to restore 
those items to their places of origin.
In conclusion, it is my pleasure to announce in this 
forum that on 23 February, we signed a memorandum 
of  understanding  with  the  United  States  of  America 
that  imposes  restrictions  on  the  import  and  trade  of 
Libyan archaeological objects. On 18 July, we received 
some  pottery  objects  that  date  back  to  the  Germanic 
civilization in Libya, representing a part of Libya’s rich 
history and the history of humankind.
Mr.  Korneliou  (Cyprus):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
commend Greece, the main sponsor of draft resolution 
A/73/L.54,  entitled  “Return  or  restitution  of  cultural 
property  to  the  countries  of  origin”.  We  welcome  the 
updates to the draft resolution, which reflect important 
initiatives  and  significant  developments  in  that  area. 
Cyprus supports and co-sponsors this draft resolution 
and appreciates today’s discussion.
there 
Although 
are  numerous 
international 
conventions and decisions on the protection of cultural 
heritage, there is still a great deal that the international 
community can do in that regard. That said, the draft 
resolution is particularly significant in the framework 
of  the  collective  efforts  for  the  protection  of  cultural 
heritage  and  the  return  or  restitution  of  cultural 
property to the countries of origin.
The  protection  of  cultural  property  is  one  of  the 
priorities of the foreign policy of Cyprus. That is hardly 
surprising  if  one  considers  Cyprus’s  rich  cultural 
heritage dating back thousands of years and the bitter 
experience  of  witnessing  its  destruction  and  looting 
since 1974 as a result of the foreign military occupation.
To that end, Cyprus actively promotes the adoption 
of measures against the destruction and illicit trafficking 
of  cultural  heritage  and  the  return  or  restitution  of 
cultural  property  to  the  countries  of  origin,  such  as 
the digitization of cultural property, both movable and 
immovable, and enhancing the public role in combating 
looting and illicit trafficking of cultural property.
At the international level, recent initiatives include 
the  establishment  by  Cyprus,  together  with  Italy,  of 
the  Group  of  Friends  for  the  Protection  of  Cultural 
Heritage, within the framework of the United Nations 
in  New  York;  Cyprus’s  initiative  in  Geneva  on  the 
Human  Rights  Council  resolution  on  cultural  rights 
and  the  protection  of  cultural  heritage,  unanimously 
adopted  in  March  2018;  and,  finally,  the  adoption  in 
2017 of the Council of Europe’s Convention on Offences 
relating to Cultural Property, also known as the Nicosia 
Convention, an initiative of Cyprus’s Chairmanship of 
the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. 
The Convention is the first legal text to incorporate a 
criminal  code  for  perpetrators  who  destroy,  steal  or 
trade  cultural  property,  including  a  provision  that  the 
burden  of  proof  lies  with  the  buyer  or  the  possessor 
of the artefact, and the need for the harmonization of 
national  legislation  in  order  to  promote  and  facilitate 
inter-State  cooperation 
illegal 
trafficking of cultural heritage.
in  combating 
the 
Moreover,  the  Convention  promotes  international 
cooperation  in  this  field.  It  is  open  for  signature 
and  accession  by  members  and  non-members  of  the 
Council of Europe. Once again, I call upon all members 
to  become  a  party  to  the  Nicosia  Convention,  an 
important  and  unique  legal  tool  for  the  protection  of 
18-43660
3/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
cultural heritage and the return or restitution of cultural 
property to the countries of origin.
In conclusion, we are convinced that the unanimous 
adoption  and  implementation  of  the  draft  resolution 
under discussion will further enhance our cooperation 
and collective efforts for the protection of our common 
global cultural heritage.
Mr. Brown (United States of America): The United 
States welcomes the resolutions of the General Assembly 
and  other  international  forums  that  draw  attention  to 
the important issue of trafficking in cultural property. 
The United States strongly believes that the protection 
of  cultural  heritage  in  countries  of  origin  promotes 
regional  stability  and  good  governance.  To  that  end, 
we have supported and continue to support numerous 
resolutions  on  this  issue  in  various  international 
forums,  including  the  Security  Council,  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  UNESCO. 
Furthermore, we have joined with other members of the 
United Nations Group of Friends for the Protection of 
Cultural Heritage in implementing national legislation 
to prevent the illicit trafficking of cultural property.
In 2016, the United States Congress passed its most 
recent legislation concerning this issue, the Protect and 
Preserve  International  Cultural  Property  Act,  which 
seeks  to  coordinate  policy  and  programmes  on  this 
matter across the United States Government as well as 
with our international partners. We have already seen 
positive results from  those efforts and look forward to 
continuing to work with our international partners on 
multilateral and bilateral bases.
However,  while 
joins 
the  United  States 
the 
consensus  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.54,  on  the 
return or restitution of cultural property, we take this 
opportunity  to  clarify  important  points  related  to  the 
fifth  preambular  paragraph  and  operative  paragraph 
11,  concerning  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
Jurisdictional Immunities of States and Their Property. 
The  draft  resolution  concerns  the  illicit  trafficking 
of  cultural  property,  which  we  believe  is  a  separate 
issue  from  whether  such  property  is  immune  in  a 
judicial  proceeding.  In  future  draft  resolutions  on 
this  issue,  we  encourage  a  re-examination  of  the 
relevance of the Convention to the issue of trafficking 
in cultural property.
The  United  States  also  takes  this  opportunity 
to  highlight  the  important  issue  of  trafficking  in  the 
cultural  property  of  indigenous  peoples.  Consistent 
with  the  spirit  of  this  draft  resolution  and  the  United 
Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous 
Peoples, 
the  United  States  has  enacted  national 
domestic legislation that seeks to enable the repatriation 
of such property. Nevertheless, native American tribes 
frequently  have  difficulty  recovering  their  cultural 
property internationally.
In conclusion, the United States reiterates its view 
that the trafficking of cultural property is unacceptable, 
and  we  look  forward  to  continuing  to  raise  the  issue 
of  the  cultural  property  of  indigenous  peoples  at 
international forums in future.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this agenda item.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/73/L.54.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/73/L.54:  Algeria,  Angola,  Australia, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belize, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, 
Cameroon,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Georgia, 
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Indonesia, Ireland, Latvia, 
Libya,  Lichtenstein,  Mauritius,  Morocco,  Myanmar, 
Nepal,  the  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Slovenia,  Somalia,  Sri  Lanka, 
the Sudan, Tajikistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Ukraine and 
the United Arab Emirates.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/73/L.54?
Draft resolution A/73/L.54 was adopted (resolution 
73/130).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 10?
It was so decided.
4/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
Agenda item 129 (continued)
Global health and foreign policy
Notes by the Secretary-General (A/73/393, 
A/73/393/Corr.1 and A/73/414)
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.37 and A/73/L.62)
Draft amendment (A/73/L.67)
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Brazil  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.62.
Mr.  Vieira  (Brazil):  Today  I  have  the  honour  to 
introduce  draft  resolution  A/73/L.62,  entitled  “Global 
health  and  foreign  policy:  a  healthier  world  through 
better nutrition”, under agenda item 129, on behalf of the 
seven core members of the Foreign Policy and Global 
Health Initiative, which are Brazil, France, Indonesia, 
Norway, Senegal, South Africa and Thailand.
The  Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health  Initiative 
was  formed  in  September  2006.  Every  year  since 
2008,  we  have  introduced  in  the  General  Assembly 
draft  resolutions  on  health-related  matters  in  order 
to  advocate  greater  recognition  of  the  intrinsic  link 
between global health and foreign policy. For 10 years, 
we  have  touched  on  different  topics  that  are  seen  as 
key health challenges and that require greater attention 
from the international community.
This year, at the seventy-third session of the General 
Assembly,  under  Brazil’s  chairmanship,  the  Foreign 
Policy  and  Global  Health  Initiative  has  the  honour  to 
introduce a draft resolution on global health and foreign 
policy with a focus on nutrition. The right of everyone 
to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of 
physical and mental health is inseparable from the right 
to adequate nutrition.
In  April  2016,  the  General  Assembly  proclaimed 
2016-2025  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  Action  on 
Nutrition  (resolution  70/259).  The  following  year,  a 
programme  of  work  was  adopted.  Those  documents 
provide  a  unique  opportunity  for  stakeholders  to 
strengthen their efforts to eradicate hunger and prevent 
all forms of malnutrition worldwide. Notwithstanding 
those efforts and frameworks, we see a risk of lagging 
behind in the implementation of the Decade. That is a 
common concern of all countries of the Foreign Policy 
and Global Health Initiative and a decisive factor for us 
in choosing nutrition as this year’s theme.
A/73/PV.52
Improved  nutrition,  as  well  as  healthy  diets  and 
lifestyles,  are  essential  to  the  achievement  of  all 
Sustainable Development Goals and targets and are also 
key elements in preventing, controlling and responding 
to  non-communicable  diseases.  The  draft  resolution 
recognizes  the  fundamental  right  of  everyone  to  be 
free  from  hunger  and  all  forms  of  malnutrition,  and 
encourages  international  cooperation  and  assistance 
to  support  Member  States  in  achieving  health  goals, 
implementing  universal  access  to  health  services, 
addressing  health  challenges  and  increasing  food 
production and access to healthy and nutritious food.
To  strengthen  those  efforts,  the  draft  resolution 
also  invites  Member  States  to  work  with  the  World 
Health  Organization  and  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  to  convene,  on  a 
voluntary basis, new action networks on nutrition and to 
develop, strengthen and implement policies to address 
the  multiple  challenges  of  malnutrition,  including 
through the adoption of commitments that are specific, 
measurable,  achievable,  relevant  and 
time-bound, 
within the framework of the United Nations Decade of 
Action on Nutrition.
task 
Tackling  the  root  causes  of,  and  factors  leading 
to,  malnutrition  in  all  its  forms  is  a  complex  and 
multidimensional 
that  demands  strong  and 
sustained political leadership, policy coherence across 
Governments and concerted, sustained and intersectoral 
efforts. In that context, I take this opportunity to express 
my  gratitude  to  the  World  Health  Organization  and 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations  for  their  fundamental  support  throughout  the 
entire negotiation process.
Through  this  draft  resolution,  we  reaffirm  our 
intention and willingness to continue working together 
to achieve concrete results through the Foreign Policy 
and  Global  Health  Initiative  for  the  advancement  of 
global  health  issues  in  the  broader  United  Nations 
framework and beyond.
In conclusion, I call on all Member States to support 
this important initiative and to join us in adopting the 
draft resolution.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Hungary  to  introduce  draft 
amendment A/73/L.67.
Mrs.  Bogyay 
is 
fully 
committed  to  the  goals  enshrined  in  draft  resolution 
(Hungary):  Hungary 
18-43660
5/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
A/73/L.62,  on  global  health  and  foreign  policy.  The 
Hungarian Government has devoted strong support to 
achieving universal health coverage globally by 2030. 
We are one of the core members of the Group of Friends 
of Universal Health Coverage.
Today, I would like to thank Brazil and the group 
of  friends  of  the  Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health 
Initiative  for  their  commitment.  However,  we  cannot 
and are not in a position to endorse the twenty-second 
preambular paragraph of the draft resolution given its 
reference  to  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and 
regular migration. Our opposition to such a reference 
was consistently expressed throughout the negotiations 
on the text. As is well known, after a long process of 
negotiations,  the  Government  of  Hungary  decided 
to  disassociate  itself  from  the  adoption  and  the 
implementation process of the global compact for safe, 
orderly and regular migration. For that reason, Hungary 
requests  the  amendment  of  the  draft  resolution  by 
deleting the twenty-second preambular paragraph.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Brazil on a point of order.
Mr.  Vieira  (Brazil):  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver 
this statement on behalf of France, Indonesia, Norway, 
Senegal, South Africa, Thailand and my own country, 
Brazil.
We  regret  that  the  only  paragraph  related  to 
migration  in  draft  resolution  A/73/L.62  is  being 
challenged. Aware of the current sensitivity of the issue, 
the  Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health  Initiative  tried 
to remain as factual as possible and not to reopen the 
discussion  held  during  the  negotiations  on  the  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration.  The 
group made a great effort to accommodate all concerns 
around  that  issue  and  managed  to  strike  a  delicate 
balance  in  the  twenty-second  preambular  paragraph 
and the entire draft resolution. We therefore call on all 
delegations to vote against the amendment contained in 
document A/73/L.67.
Mr.  Srivihok  (Thailand):  I  have  the  honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  10  States 
members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN),  namely,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia, 
Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Malaysia,  Myanmar,  the  Philippines,  Singapore,  Viet 
Nam and my country, Thailand.
The 
issue  of  health  has  gained 
impressive 
prominence  and  political  attention  in  New  York  over 
the  years  for  very  obvious  reasons.  In  the  context  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, where 
people are placed at the very heart of our efforts, it is 
undeniable that good health is central to the achievement 
of  sustainable  development.  Health  is  a  fundamental 
right, an indispensable factor for the advancement and 
development of human capital and the empowerment of 
peoples, and an evident form of social justice.
The interdependence of and intrinsic link between 
global health and foreign policy become ever stronger 
with  time.  In  that  respect,  ASEAN  would  like  to 
commend 
the  Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health 
Initiative, of which two of our fellow ASEAN nations, 
namely,  Indonesia  and  Thailand,  are  members,  for 
spearheading  the  efforts  to  address  persistent  and 
emerging issues of global health at the United Nations.
The  theme  of  this  year’s  annual  resolution  on 
nutrition  (A/73/L.62) 
importance 
to  our  region  because  a  large  proportion  of  our 
populations  die  prematurely  every  day  due  to  diet-
related  non-communicable  diseases  such  as  diabetes 
and  obesity.  It  is  important  because  some  of  our 
children  continue  to  suffer  from  malnutrition  and 
undernourishment,  which  hinders  their  growth  and 
development, especially in families in rural areas.
is  of  particular 
In alignment with and reinforced by the Sustainable 
Development Goals, ASEAN member States have been 
continuously working together under the ASEAN Post-
2015  Health  Development  Agenda  across  20  priority 
areas for health and their related goals, especially in the 
context of the promotion of good nutrition and a healthy 
diet, as guided by the ASEAN Community Vision 2025 
and the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Blueprint 
2025. Among those priorities, we are working to ensure 
food safety and security, as well as to promote healthy 
diets and lifestyles of people, in our respective countries 
and in the region as a whole in order to achieve Healthy 
ASEAN 2020. ASEAN reiterates its strong commitment 
to addressing the various determinants, be they social, 
economic or environmental, and the main risk factors 
for poor health, as well as to ensuring greater access to 
health services, in the face of rising co-morbidities and 
drug resistance everywhere.
In  that  regard,  ASEAN  wishes  to  welcome  the 
successful  conclusions  of  the  high-level  meeting  on 
the  fight  against  tuberculosis  and  the  third  high-
6/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
level  meeting  on 
the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable diseases, and the adoption of their 
respective  outcome  documents  (resolutions  73/3  and 
73/2),  which  mark  another  important  milestone  with 
respect to global health. We also welcome the convening 
of the high-level meeting on universal health coverage 
next year. We believe that these processes will galvanize 
the political will needed to make a real and impactful 
change on the ground. It is clear that, in so doing, the 
health sector alone cannot be left with this task. It calls 
for the highest and strongest level of political support 
and  requires  adequate  and  sustained  investment  for 
effective implementation. Most importantly, it requires 
engagement  from  all  relevant  actors  and  sectors, 
including the people themselves.
To  that  end,  ASEAN  would  like  to  reaffirm  its 
commitment to continue working with the international 
community  to  realize  our  shared  goal  of  healthy 
lives  and  well-being  for  all  and  truly  to  leave  no  one 
behind.  Thailand  will  continue  the  excellent  work 
done by Singapore this year as we take up the ASEAN 
chairmanship  next  year  with  the  aim  of  advancing 
partnership for sustainability, which is much needed to 
address the complex challenges we face today.
Before I conclude, I would like to say a few words 
in  my  national  capacity.  First  of  all,  Thailand  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Brazil. For us, it has been an honour 
to  be  an  active  member  of  the  Foreign  Policy  and 
Global  Health  Initiative  since  its  formation  over  a 
decade  ago.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  Brazil,  as 
the Group’s current Chair, for leading us through this 
year’s negotiation process. It was not an easy one, but 
we are happy to see the very balanced yet strong text 
of the draft resolution. Special thanks go to Ms. Laura 
Delamonica  of  the  Brazilian  Mission  for  having 
diligently  facilitated  the  negotiating  process  on  this 
very important draft resolution.
We deeply regret that this year, for the first time, 
the  only  draft  resolution  on  health  proposed  annually 
by  the  Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health  Initiative  in 
the General Assembly may be put to a vote even though 
its  aim  is  to  address  health-related  challenges  that 
affect all countries, large and small. We also note with 
concern  that  today,  the  cross-cutting  nature  of  health 
is  drawing  us  further  away  from  finding  consensus. 
Nonetheless,  the  Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health 
Initiative,  as  a  unique,  like-minded,  cross-regional 
group,  will  continue  to  advocate  for  global  health  in 
the  international  arena,  regardless  of  the  countless 
difficulties  and  obstacles  we  may  encounter  because, 
after all, health is a key enabler for the achievement of 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Looking ahead and having just celebrated International 
Universal Health Coverage Day yesterday, my country 
is  eagerly  looking  forward  to  the  high-level  meeting 
on universal health coverage to be held next year. For 
us, universal health coverage is an overarching factor 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  3.  The  high-level 
meeting will therefore mark another historic milestone, 
which will help countries to promote greater access to 
essential  and  quality  health  services  and  medicines, 
bearing in mind that poverty should not block access to 
these services, and similarly, that these services should 
not force service users and their families into poverty 
or financial hardship.
Lastly, it is an honour for me to have been entrusted by 
the President of the General Assembly the responsibility 
of co-facilitating, with the Permanent Representative of 
Hungary,  the  negotiations  on  the  political  declaration 
of the high-level meeting on universal health coverage. 
Once I have been officially appointed as co-facilitator, 
please rest assured of my full support and that of my 
country towards a transparent and inclusive process, as 
well as an action-oriented outcome.
Ms. Bhengu (South Africa): I have the honour to 
deliver this statement on behalf of South Africa. South 
Africa aligns itself with the statement delivered by the 
representative of Brazil on behalf of the Foreign Policy 
and Global Health Initiative.
The year 2018 marks an important milestone for the 
international community as we commemorate 70 years 
since  the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights.  That  marked  a  critical  turning  point 
as  world  leaders  decided  that  discrimination  on  any 
grounds could no longer be tolerated by boldly declaring 
that  all  human  beings  are  born  equal  in  rights  and  in 
dignity.  That  historic  document  establishes  the  basic 
concepts  of  dignity,  liberty,  equality  and  brotherhood 
in how we conduct ourselves within and among nations.
This anniversary offers us an opportunity to assess 
how  the  commitments  enshrined  in  the  Declaration 
have  guided  and  continue  to  guide  us  as  we  address 
emerging issues. As early as 1948, we understood that 
we  cannot  choose  which  and  whose  human  rights  we 
want  to  promote  and  protect  as  they  are  indivisible, 
interconnected  and  interrelated.  Our  pronouncements 
18-43660
7/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
on human rights — in this case, the right to health — are 
invalid if we cannot rise above our indifference towards 
those  who  are  different  from  us,  such  as  migrants 
and refugees.
As President Ramaphosa has said, the centrality of 
human rights in South African law and the importance 
of having a Bill of Rights included in our Constitution 
are in no small part thanks to the enduring impact of 
the Declaration, which has proved to be as relevant as 
it is timeless. Seventy years after it was adopted, South 
Africa reaffirms its commitment to upholding this pact 
between the peoples of the world.
Access  to  health  care,  including  reproductive 
health care, is a constitutionally recognized right, under 
section 27 of the South African Constitution. The South 
African Constitutional Court has linked the realization 
of socioeconomic rights to the right to life and adequate 
standards of living. It enjoins the State to take reasonable 
legislative  and  other  measures  within  its  available 
resources to achieve the progressive realization of each 
of these rights on a non-discriminatory basis.
Similarly,  2018  marks  exactly  10  years  since  our 
network  presented  its  first  draft  resolution  to  the 
General Assembly, which would make global health a 
pressing foreign policy issue of our time. We have been 
privileged to walk this journey with countries who share 
our vision, not only to promote health as a right but also 
to ensure that all people, without discrimination, enjoy 
access to health care.
While  our  network  remains  at  the  forefront  of 
tackling some of the most difficult yet pertinent health-
related  questions  through  its  annual  themes,  we  have 
enjoyed the support of other Member States that believe 
that,  regardless  of  our  differences,  the  health  of  our 
people  should  always  take  priority.  This  is  based  on 
the  recognition  that  health  is  a  precondition  for,  and 
an  outcome  and  indicator  of,  all  three  dimensions  of 
sustainable development.
Under the leadership of our Chair, Brazil, we have 
once  again  presented  a  draft  resolution  seeking  to 
promote a healthier world through better nutrition. The 
draft resolution brings together the commitments made 
in the United Nations Decade of Action on Nutrition, 
the  Second  International  Conference  on  Nutrition, 
political  declarations  on  non-communicable  diseases 
and  the  2030  Agenda  on  Sustainable  Development, 
among others.
In line with the commitments made by our Heads 
of State and Government at the high-level meeting on 
non-communicable diseases last September, as well as 
those made by ministers of health at the World Health 
Assembly in 2017, we urge Member States to promote 
healthy  diets  and  adopt  fiscal  and  regulatory  public 
policies, such as taxing unhealthy foods and beverages, 
effective  front-of-pack  labelling,  restrictions  on  the 
marketing  and  commercialization  of  unhealthy  foods 
to  children  and  adolescents,  and  the  reformulation  of 
industrialized foods to improve their nutritional value.
What  we  did  not  anticipate  was  that  such  an 
earnest effort aimed at the protection of the health of 
our population in line with the commitments made in 
Sustainable Development Goal 3 would erode the very 
essence  of  diplomacy,  constructive  engagement  and 
mutual  respect.  Instead  of  heeding  the  call  to  adopt 
and review policies to ensure that children who suffer 
from  child  obesity  resulting  from  unhealthy  foods 
and  beverages  were  protected  by  Governments,  we 
witnessed a concerted effort to shut down any attempts 
aimed at highlighting this pertinent issue, all because 
it  threatens  industry.  Nonetheless,  South  Africa  and 
its  partners  remain  resolved  in  their  commitment  to 
protect public health against the advocates of industry, 
who will stop at nothing to block progress that brings 
us closer to the attainment of Sustainable Development 
Goal 3.
Accordingly,  South  Africa  condemns  attempts 
to  limit  dialogue  at  the  United  Nations  on  important 
issues  simply  because  they  are  deemed  controversial. 
We are called “distinguished delegates” because we are 
committed  to  finding  solutions,  even  on  some  of  the 
most difficult issues, through dialogue.
We 
thank 
the  delegations 
that  worked  with 
us  to  produce  a  well-balanced  draft  resolution  on 
such  an  important  topic.  The  role  of  nutrition  in  the 
lives  of  all  populations,  in  particular  those  battling 
communicable 
and  non-communicable  diseases, 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  Through  policies  and 
concrete  actions,  we  should  ensure  that  consumers 
make informed choices about the food they eat, while 
promoting  physical  activity  and  healthy  lifestyles.  It 
is  our  duty  to  protect  our  populations,  in  particular 
children, from all forms of malnutrition.
South Africa remains firm in its belief that access 
to medicines, in particular essential medicines that are 
affordable,  safe,  efficacious  and  of  quality,  is  one  of 
8/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
the  fundamental  elements  in  progressively  achieving 
the  full  realization  of  the  right  of  everyone  to  the 
enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical 
and mental health.
In that regard, South Africa wishes to reiterate its 
commitment  to  the  Declaration  adopted  by  the  World 
Trade  Organization  Ministerial  Conference  of  2001 
in  Doha  on  the  Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual 
Property  Rights  (TRIPS),  as  well  as  the  TRIPS 
Agreement,  as  instructive  documents  on  the  balance 
between  intellectual  property  rights  and  the  rights  of 
Member States to protect public health.
It  is  unfortunate  that  despite  all  our  efforts  to 
find  consensus,  a  vote  has  been  called  for  on  the 
draft  resolution.  We  ask  that  all  Member  States  who 
are  committed  to  global  health  vote  in  support  of  the 
draft resolution.
Ms.  DeSuza  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis  welcomes  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.62,  on  global  health  and  foreign  policy,  as  a 
manifestation of our continued commitment to building 
a healthier world through better nutrition. At the outset, 
we  thank  the  facilitator  of  Brazil  for  the  excellent 
manner in which the negotiations were conducted and 
express  our  appreciation  to  the  other  members  of  the 
Foreign Policy and Global Health Initiative.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  believes  that  a  healthy 
population is a wealthy population. We are convinced 
that  health  is  a  precondition  for,  and  an  outcome  of, 
sustainable  development.  In  particular,  we  note  the 
multidimensional nature of health as defined throughout 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
important interplay between food security and improved 
nutrition  as  well  as  healthy  diets  and  lifestyles.  Our 
Government  has  committed  to  improving  the  health 
and  well-being  of  all  our  citizens  and  people  through 
the crafting of our national food and nutrition security 
policy and plan of action.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  undergoing  a  period 
of  nutritional  and  epidemiological  transitions.  The 
nutrition transition is reflected in a shift in diets, which 
is seen in a reduced prevalence of undernutrition and 
infectious  diseases  and  an  increased  prevalence  of 
overweight and obesity — one of the main risk factors 
for  non-communicable  diseases.  Those  diseases  are 
the  main  public  health  concerns  in  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis. We therefore maintain that our country and our 
Caribbean Community region will continue to pursue 
the  commitments  made  just  a  few  months  ago  during 
the high-level meeting on the prevention and control of 
non-communicable diseases, and we call on our partners 
and the international community to do the same.
The  health  of  our  children  continues 
to  be 
of  particular  concern.  With  extremely  worrying 
prevalence  rates  of  childhood  obesity  in  our  region, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  continues  to  promote  the 
importance  of  breastfeeding,  nutrition  education  and 
physical  education  as  components  of  our  national 
interventions  aimed  at  improving  the  health  of  our 
children.  In  addition,  we  continue  to  strengthen 
initiatives  to  improve  the  nutritional  health  of  our 
population  throughout  the  life  course  and  to  prevent 
micronutrient deficiencies.
firmly  believes 
My  Government 
that  social 
protection  programmes  are  a  fundamental  component 
of providing a healthier environment for our people. In 
my Government’s most recently launched programme, 
we have encouraged the beneficiaries of cash transfers 
to invest in healthy diets and lifestyles.
We maintain that we cannot secure a healthier world 
through  better  nutrition  without  the  advancement  of 
food and agricultural systems. Small island developing 
States, such as Saint Kitts and Nevis, will continue to 
face the dual threats of climate change and unhealthy 
populations. Climate change, with its implications for 
agriculture  and  fisheries,  undermines  food  security 
and in fact denies our population access to affordable, 
healthy food.
As  articulated  in  The  State  of  Food  Security  and 
Nutrition in the World 2018, published by the Food and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
note that all dimensions of food security and nutrition, 
including food availability, access and utilization, are 
affected  by  climate  variability  and  climate  extremes, 
even  in  the  short  term.  An  important  component  of 
national  food  and  nutrition  policy  in  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis is the creation of effective disaster preparedness 
and adaptation and mitigation strategies as a means of 
protecting  our  population  from  the  threats  of  natural 
disasters and climate change.
In the context of our discussion on global health and 
foreign policy, Saint Kitts and Nevis continues to chart 
its course towards achieving universal health coverage 
for all its people, and we look forward to the high-level 
meeting on universal health coverage to be held during 
the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly.
18-43660
9/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
Finally, Saint Kitts and Nevis renews its commitment 
to  building  a  healthier  nation,  a  healthier  region  and, 
ultimately, a healthier world through better nutrition.
Mr.  Gimenez  (Norway):  Let  me  first  thank  the 
delegation  of  Brazil  for  its  steady  leadership  of  the 
negotiations on this year’s draft resolution A/73/L.62. 
My delegation aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by the representative of Brazil on behalf of the members 
of the Foreign Policy and Global Health Initiative. The 
negotiations  have  been  particularly  challenging  this 
year, and I commend all Brazil’s efforts and success in 
achieving our collective outcome.
This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
submission  and adoption of the resolution, as agreed in 
2007 in the Oslo Ministerial Declaration, spearheaded 
by the Foreign Ministers of Brazil, France, Indonesia, 
Norway, Senegal, South Africa and Thailand.
Our  shared  concern  then,  as  now,  is  that  health 
is  one  of  the  most  important  yet  broadly  neglected 
foreign  -policy  issues  of  our  time  and  that  it  needs 
our  continued  and  strategic  focus  here  at  the  United 
Nations.  It  is  therefore  encouraging  that  awareness 
has been raised on the centrality of health to attain our 
common development objectives.
The topic of this year’s draft resolution — nutrition — is 
essential in our endeavours to achieve a healthy population. 
Improving  nutrition  involves  complex  interrelationships 
between diet and disease, while the effects of malnutrition, 
including  underweight,  stunting,  overweight  and  obesity, 
all heighten risks for both infectious and non-communicable 
diseases.  Several  of  those  concerns  are  underlined  and 
addressed in this year’s draft resolution.
However,  we  regret  that  the  language  regarding 
non-communicable diseases and nutrition in paragraph 
10  does  not  sufficiently  address  some  of  the  concrete 
policies and actions needed. We consider the language 
in  that  paragraph  to  be  weaker  than  the  language  we 
collectively  agreed  on  at  the  high-level  meeting  on 
non-communicable diseases as late as September.
the  key 
In  my  country’s  view, 
to  attaining 
the  nutrition-related  target  3.4  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, on reducing disease and premature 
death,  is  through  ensuring  increased  consumption 
of  healthy  and  nutritious  foods.  That  means  that  we 
must make a concerted effort to avoid consumption of 
unhealthy foods that are high in sugars, salt, saturated 
fats and trans-fats.
The  normative  work  of 
the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  has  shown  that  there  are  cost-
effective  ways  to  achieve  that,  including  the  use  of 
fiscal measures, such as taxation, front-pack labelling 
and  restrictions  on  marketing  of  unhealthy  foods 
and  beverages,  especially  those  aimed  at  children. 
The  evidence  base  for  applying  those  recommended 
measures  is  clear.  We  therefore  urge  Member  States 
seeking  to  improve  health  through  better  nutrition 
to 
the  WHO  cost-effective  actions 
and recommendations.
implement 
It  is  encouraging  that  we  acknowledge  the  link 
between nutrition and sexual and reproductive health. 
Improving  nutrition  for  mothers  and  children  helps 
ensure  that  children  get  the  best  start  in  life  and  the 
opportunity to reach their full potential. We must step 
up our work in that area.
Health  is  an  integrated  element  of  a  number  of 
SDGs. Improving health and access to health services 
for all has a direct impact on poverty reduction, ending 
hunger,  gender  equality,  education  and  peaceful 
societies,  among  many  other  issues.  Progress  on 
health  means  progress  towards  achieving  the  entire 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Health 
and improved nutrition are among the most important 
building  blocks  of  any  well-functioning  society.  It 
is  a  long-term  investment,  but  it  is  one  that  we  must 
make  now.  We  have  no  time  to  lose.  We  regret  that, 
despite  our  efforts  to  reach  a  consensus,  a  vote  has 
been requested on the draft resolution. We join others 
in asking Member States to vote in favour of it.
Mr.  Khalil  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  commend  the  Foreign  Policy  and  Global 
Health Initiative group, in particular the delegation of 
Brazil and its expert, for the effective management of 
this  important  issue.  I  also  express  my  appreciation 
to the Secretariat, the World Health Organization and 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations for their support.
the  central  role  of 
Everyone  is  aware  of  the  high  priority  of  issues 
relating  to  global  health,  reflecting  its  international 
importance  and 
international 
cooperation  in  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the relevant Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  we  at  the  United 
Nations  have  increasingly  begun  to  address  these 
issues,  which  were  formerly  considered  specialized 
issues that did not require discussion at Headquarters. 
10/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
Despite the related challenges, in particular with regard 
to  delegations  of  developing  countries  with  limited 
resources, 
this  positive  development  reflects  our 
realization of the need to achieve coherence in policies 
concerning a number of sectors, such as health, trade 
and industry, among others.
on the adoption of this important draft resolution in few 
moments. We hope that all States, the Secretariat and the 
relevant programmes and specialized agencies, whose 
role we value, will implement the draft resolution upon 
its adoption and enhance international cooperation so 
that no State and no person will be left behind.
With  respect  to  the  relevant  draft  resolutions, 
the  chosen  topic  of  nutrition  this  year  attests  to  the 
interrelated nature of such issues. The topic of nutrition 
calls for increased focus on the part of the international 
community,  given  that  we  have  all  noted  in  the 
reports  of  the  Secretary-General  the  disconcerting 
and  unprecedented  increase  over  the  past  three  years 
in the number of those suffering from hunger, at rates 
not seen in the past 10 years. It is simply unacceptable 
for us — the international community — to stand idly 
by as we watch more than 150 million children suffer 
from  stunted  growth.  Through  scientific  research,  it 
is  also  within  our  reach  to  consider  studies  and  data 
on  sound  nutrition  and  healthy  lifestyles.  Given  their 
limited  financial  and  economic  resources,  however, 
human societies for the most part are unable to adhere 
to such guidelines.
With  regard  to  scientific  research,  my  delegation 
would like to point out that, as we are deliberating on 
the  annual  resolution  under  the  agenda  item  “Global 
health and foreign policy”, many scientific discoveries 
have  allowed  us  to  achieve  progress  in  the  treatment 
and  prevention  of  many  diseases.  It  is  important  to 
note,  however,  that  human  societies  have  never  been 
as stringent in placing restrictions on the transfer and 
recognition of knowledge as we are at the present time. 
That represents a very grave challenge for humankind. 
It is crucial that we step up our means to address that 
imbalance. It is also unacceptable that individuals and 
societies  should  suffer  from  any  disease  for  which 
a  cure  is  available,  and  for  States  and  individuals  to 
endure  unbearable  financial  burdens  in  order  to  treat 
diseases that afflict them.
Given the important provisions of draft resolution 
A/73/L.62  on  nutrition  and  health  in  order  to  achieve 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  in 
all  its  dimensions  and  objectives,  while  calling  for 
the  elimination  of  poverty  in  all  its  dimensions  and 
forms,  my  delegation  has  given  the  draft  resolution 
serious  consideration  and  interacted  constructively 
and  positively  with  the  other  delegations  since  its 
submission. We were happy to be among its sponsors. I 
hope that all of us will be able to congratulate ourselves 
transmitting 
the 
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  We  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for 
important 
report  of  the  Director-General  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  (see  A/73/414)  on  improving 
coordination  and  cooperation  to  address  the  health 
needs of the most vulnerable for the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We share the 
views of the Director General of WHO that health is not 
just an end in and of itself but a foundation for human 
capital.  Therefore,  Sustainable  Development  Goal  3, 
aimed  at  ensuring  healthy  lives  and  promoting  well-
being  for  all  at  all  ages,  is  fundamental  for  reaching 
other SDG targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  Yesterday,  for  the  first  time  at  the 
United Nations, and globally, we celebrated Universal 
Health Coverage Day, which is a demonstration of our 
collective commitment to provide access to health care 
to everyone, everywhere. To move forward, we should 
frame emerging priorities, identify challenges and offer 
collective  recommendations  for  accelerating  progress 
towards  universal  health  coverage.  In  that  regard,  we 
welcome draft resolution A/73/L.62, and our delegation 
remains  grateful  to  the  delegation  of  Brazil  for 
successfully facilitating it in the most inclusive manner.
As  we  endeavour  to  address  the  health  needs 
of  the  most  vulnerable  populations  and  improve 
equity,  we  need  to  work  for  collective  action  and  its 
greater  coherence  at  all  levels  and  among  all  sectors 
and  stakeholders.  Global  health  is  multidimensional 
in  scope,  often  crosses  physical  boundaries  and 
requires  sustained  high-level  commitment  and  closer 
international  cooperation, 
including  partnerships 
among  the  relevant  stakeholders.  We  recognize  that, 
despite the progress made, challenges in global health 
still  remain,  with  special  regard  to  inequities  and 
vulnerabilities  within  and  among  countries,  regions 
and populations.
Bangladesh 
health 
improvements since gaining independence in 1971 and 
has  evolved  into  a  role  model  of  good  health  at  low 
cost. Public health scholars have identified Bangladesh 
as  a  positive  deviant,  performing  far  better,  given 
its  widespread  challenges,  than  anyone  could  have 
remarkable 
has 
seen 
18-43660
11/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
in 
achievements 
expected.  The  Lancet,  the  renowned  British  medical 
journal, called that success one of the great mysteries 
of  global  health.  In  terms  of  health  expenditure,  per 
capita purchasing power parity expenditure from public 
funds in Bangladesh increased to $88 in 2014, while the 
country spent less than 3 per cent of its gross domestic 
product  (GDP)  on  health  in  the  same  year.  However, 
Bangladesh’s  health 
reducing 
maternal, infant and under-5 mortality rates, increased 
vaccination coverage and higher life expectancy at birth, 
have  been  achieved  despite  such  low  per  capita  GDP 
spending on health care. Bangladesh has outperformed 
its  many  South  Asian  neighbours,  convincingly 
defying  the  expert  view  that  economic  strength  and 
abundant health resources are the key drivers of better 
population health. Progress in the area of infant, child 
and maternal mortality has been particularly striking, 
with  maternal  mortality  reduced  from  594  deaths  per 
100,000 live births in 1990 to 176 deaths in 2015. The 
infant mortality and under-5 mortality rates, as of 2016, 
are 29 and 36 per 1,000 live births, respectively.
Such  achievements  are  attributed  to  a  variety  of 
health and non-health systems-related factors, including 
the sustained political commitment of the Government, 
maternal  and  child  health-based 
strategies,  an 
expanded  programme  of  immunization,  innovative 
low-cost technology, the extensive networking of field 
workers, the establishment of community-based clinics 
by  the  present  Government  under  Prime  Minister 
Sheikh  Hasina,  the  active  collaboration  between  the 
Government  and  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs), the proactive role of mass media, intersectoral 
cooperation  and 
information  and 
communication technology, among others.
the  use  of 
  I  must  mention  here  our  strategy  for 
the 
empowerment  of  women.  Support  for  women  in 
relation  to  national  development  has  been  one  of  the 
most  important  contributing  factors.  Bangladesh  has 
undertaken  the  implementation  of  a  pluralistic  health 
system,  in  which  resources  were  drawn  from  public 
funds and spaces were created for NGOs to work within 
the health sector.
This year, the theme of the global health and foreign 
policy  draft  resolution  is  a  healthier  world  through 
better  nutrition.  Nutritional  imbalances  can  lead  to 
the two extreme health burdens of undernutrition and 
obesity  and,  like  many  other  developing  countries, 
Bangladesh has been experiencing both those burdens. 
Child  malnutrition  is  a  particular  issue  —  according 
to  2011  data,  30  to  40  per  cent  of  children  under 
5  years  of  age  are  underweight  or  stunted.  Yet, 
although undernutrition remains a significant issue in 
Bangladesh, overweight and obesity are also becoming 
concerns,  especially  for  women  of  reproductive  age. 
Despite these challenges, Bangladesh has made strides 
in reducing the prevalence of the stunting and wasting 
forms of undernutrition, which decreased from 41 per 
cent in 2011 to 36 per cent in 2014.
As  agreed  by  Heads  of  State  and  Government  at 
the third high-level meeting of the General Assembly 
on  non-communicable  diseases,  Bangladesh  has 
committed  to  minimizing  the  impact  of  the  main 
risk  factors  for  non-communicable  diseases  and  to 
addressing malnutrition in all its forms by intensifying 
its efforts and scaling up its activities under the work 
programme of the United Nations Decade of Action on 
Nutrition (2016-2025).
Bangladesh  recognizes  the  right  of  all  people  to 
the highest attainable standard of physical and mental 
health.  Those  fundamental  human  rights  cannot  be 
realized  without  universal  health  coverage,  which 
ensures that all people have access to the health services 
that  they  need  without  enduring  financial  hardship. 
In that regard, we welcome the high-level meeting on 
universal  health  coverage  to  be  convened  during  the 
seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly.
We  underscore 
that  effective,  results-oriented 
international  coordination  and  cooperation  are  vital 
to the achievement of Goal 3 and other health-related 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  High-level  political 
support from, and engagement with, Member States and 
non-State actors is therefore fundamental. Accordingly, 
we join the global community in committing to achieve 
universal  health  care  by  2030  under  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  are  fully  committed  in  our 
support for draft resolution A/73/L.62.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this agenda item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/73/L.37  and  A/73/L.62  and  draft  amendment 
A/73/L.67.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind  delegations 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
12/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
Ms.  Nemroff  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States regrets that it finds it necessary to vote 
against  draft  resolution  A/73/L.62  today.  No  nation 
makes greater contributions in terms of resources and 
actions to promote global health than my country, and 
we appreciate the intent of the originators of the global 
health and foreign policy resolution to address this topic 
through  an  annual  process,  as  a  way  of  showing  our 
long-term commitment to the issue. We also appreciate 
the  importance  of  the  general  theme  of  this  year’s 
resolution, with its focus on nutrition.
Therefore,  we  find  it  unfortunate  that  this  well-
intentioned  idea  seems  to  have  degenerated  into  an 
exercise  in  negotiating  a  draft  resolution  for  the  sake 
of  negotiating  a  draft  resolution.  While  the  topic 
of  nutrition  is  indeed  an  important  one,  this  draft 
resolution seems little more than a collection of general 
platitudes, along with many paragraphs on extraneous 
topics that are composed of previously agreed text with 
the addition of the words “and nutrition” to make them 
appear on topic. This year’s draft resolution has become 
a metaphor for the problem of the overconsumption of 
foods that have little nutritional value but are high in 
empty calories.
As  representatives  here  know,  when  resolutions 
really matter, the sponsors go to great lengths to defend 
the  texts  from  extraneous  or  controversial  language 
in order to defend the parts that are important. In this 
instance,  the  opposite  has  happened.  It  has  become  a 
freight  train  in  which  the  goal  seems  to  be  to  load  it 
with as much extraneous text and unfinished business 
as  possible,  while  no  delegation  dares  to  oppose  the 
text because we all believe that health is so important. 
This  year,  our  delegation  has  therefore  decided  to 
vote  against  this  resolution,  not  out  of  disrespect  for 
this body but, in fact, because we respect the need to 
focus on resolutions and other agreed outcomes that are 
actionable and have real-world implications.
In  future,  when  these  types  of  resolutions  are 
brought  up  annually,  we  would  urge  the  sponsors  to 
take a different approach — keep the draft resolutions 
as concise as possible, minimize or eliminate entirely 
preambular  text  and  resolve  to  keep  operative  text  to 
a  minimum,  with  an  emphasis  on  text  that  is  truly 
new. Sponsors should seek to defend those resolutions 
against  regurgitations  of  previously  agreed  text  that 
we have adopted countless times. The draft resolution 
before us today does not respect the results of the high-
level  meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  held  by  our 
leaders just two months ago. On the contrary, the draft 
resolution  diminishes  and  distorts  the  declarations  of 
our leaders by attempting to relitigate those carefully 
negotiated balances.
With  regard  to  the  seventh  preambular  paragraph 
of the draft resolution, the United States believes that 
women should have equal access to reproductive health 
care. We remain committed to the principles laid out in 
the Beijing Declaration and the Programme of Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development. As has been made clear over many years, 
there was international consensus that those documents 
do  not  create  new  international  rights,  including  any 
right to abortion. The United States fully supports the 
principle  of  voluntary  choice  regarding  maternal  and 
child health and family planning. We do not recognize 
abortion  as  a  method  of  family  planning,  nor  do  we 
support abortion in our reproductive health assistance. 
We  also  note  that  the  United  States  is  the  largest 
bilateral  donor  of  reproductive  health  and  family 
planning assistance.
Moreover,  with  respect  to  the  eighth  preambular 
paragraph  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  United  States 
strongly  supports  the  dignity  and  value  of  all  human 
life  and  rejects  any  attempt  by  others  to  construe  the 
term  “health  services”  or  “health-care  services”  to 
include abortion.
In  our  view,  the  United  Nations  must  respect 
the  independent  mandates  of  other  processes  and 
institutions, including trade negotiations, and must not 
involve itself in decisions and actions in other forums, 
including at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The 
United  States  recognizes  the  importance  of  access  to 
affordable, safe and effective medicines and the critical 
role that intellectual property plays in incentivizing the 
development of new and improved medicines.
We regret, however, the inclusion of the unacceptable 
language  of  the  WTO  Agreement  on  Trade-Related 
Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (TRIPS)  and 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  the  TRIPS  Agreement  and 
Public Health in the thirty-third preambular paragraph 
of the draft resolution. It is unacceptable to the United 
States  that  the  United  Nations  and  other  Member 
States  have  used  non-WTO  multilateral  forums  to 
attempt  to  characterize  WTO  rules  and  agreements. 
This  could  lead  to  misinterpretation  of  international 
trade  obligations  in  a  manner  that  may  negatively 
affect  the  ability  of  countries  to  incentivize  new 
18-43660
13/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
drug  development  and  expand  access  to  medicines. 
Furthermore,  that  paragraph  distorts  the  agreement 
reached less than three months ago in the declaration 
adopted  at  the  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly on non-communicable diseases.
Furthermore,  the  United  States  reaffirms,  in  this 
context, that the strong protection and enforcement of 
intellectual  property  rights  incentivizes  the  creation 
and  distribution  of  lifesaving  medicines  and  other 
useful consumer products around the world that address 
the health, environmental and development challenges 
of today and tomorrow through a carefully negotiated, 
balanced set of TRIPS member rights and obligations. 
We  continue  to  oppose  language  that  we  believe 
attempts  to  characterize  trade  commitments.  We  do 
not  believe  that  United  Nations  resolutions  are  the 
appropriate  vehicle  for  such  pronouncements,  and  we 
are concerned that the inclusion of that language may 
be  an  attempt  to  prejudice  negotiations  under  way  or 
anticipated in other, more appropriate forums. Nor does 
this draft resolution prefigure or in any way influence 
the  preparations  for  or  the  outcome  of  the  fall  2019 
high-level event on universal health coverage.
Finally,  regarding  the  reference  to  the  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration,  we 
believe  that  the  Compact  and  the  process  that  led  to 
its  adoption,  including  the  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees  and  Migrants,  represent  an  effort  by  the 
United  Nations  to  advance  global  governance  at  the 
expense of the sovereign right of States to manage their 
immigration systems in accordance with their national 
laws,  policies  and  interests.  While  the  United  States 
honours the contributions of the many immigrants who 
helped build our nation, we cannot support a compact 
or process that imposes, or has the potential to impose, 
international  guidelines,  standards,  expectations  or 
commitments that might constrain our ability to make 
decisions in the best interests of our nation and citizens. 
In that regard, we thank the delegation of Hungary for 
having proposed the amendment (A/73/L.67) to the text.
Lastly,  with  regard  to  references  to  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  we  addressed 
our  concerns  in  our  statement  on  3  December  under 
agenda item 12 (see A/73/PV.44).
Mr.  Vieira  (Brazil):  In  connection  with  draft 
resolution A/73/L.62, I have the honour to deliver the 
following  statement  on  behalf  of  France,  Indonesia, 
Norway, Senegal, South Africa, Thailand and my own 
country, Brazil.
Every  year  since  2008,  the  Foreign  Policy  and 
Global Health Initiative has submitted a draft resolution 
on global health issues for consideration by the plenary 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  every  year  it  has  been 
adopted  by  consensus.  It  is  regrettable  that  this  year, 
as  we  celebrate  its  tenth  anniversary,  an  entire  draft 
resolution  on  health,  with  a  focus  on  nutrition,  is 
being  put  to  the  vote,  especially  given  that  the  high-
level  meeting  on  universal  health  coverage  will  be 
held  in  2019.  The  work  done  by  the  Missions  of  the 
Foreign  Policy  and  Global  Health  Initiative  countries 
in Geneva; the dedication, energy and hard work of all 
delegations here in New York; and the tireless support 
of  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  all 
must be acknowledged and recognized.
We have tried to conduct an open and transparent 
process  and  to  accommodate  the  various  concerns 
expressed  by  delegations.  In  that  regard,  Brazil  is 
confident that we have achieved the best possible results, 
given the time constraints and all the challenges with 
which  we  had  to  deal.  The  draft  resolution  reaffirms 
the  right  of  every  human  being  to  the  enjoyment  of 
the highest attainable standard of physical and mental 
health. It notes the importance of health across all the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  targets 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the essential role of food security, improved nutrition, 
healthy diets and lifestyles in achieving the SDGs. The 
document  recognizes  that  health  challenges  call  for  a 
national, regional and international approach, while also 
recognizing  the  need  to  eradicate  hunger  and  prevent 
all forms of malnutrition, including undernourishment, 
stunting, wasting, underweight, overweight and obesity 
in all age groups.
We  would  recall  that  the  Rome  Declaration  on 
Nutrition  and  its  Framework  for  Action  reiterated  the 
importance  of  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  Action 
on  Nutrition  (2016-2025)  and  welcomed  the  political 
declarations  of  the  high-level  meetings  on  the  fight 
against  tuberculosis  and  non-communicable  diseases. 
We have before us a draft resolution that sets the tone on 
health issues, and the Foreign Policy and Global Health 
Initiative will continue to do so for years to come. In 
that regard, we invite all delegations to vote in favour 
of the text. Their vote in favour is an indication of the 
14/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
importance and the priority given to health issues in the 
United Nations agenda.
to prepare a summary of the hearing prior to the high-
level meeting.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.37, entitled 
“Scope,  modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the 
high-level meeting on universal health coverage”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  This  oral  statement  is 
being made in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under the terms of paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 6 of draft 
resolution  A/73/L.37,  the  General  Assembly  would 
decide the following. The one-day high-level meeting 
on universal health coverage would be convened by the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  held  in  New 
York a day before the start of the general debate of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-fourth session, from 9 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. It would consist 
of an opening segment, a plenary segment for general 
discussion,  two  multi-stakeholder  panels  and  a  brief 
closing  segment.  The  organizational  arrangements 
for  the  two  multi-stakeholder  panels  would  be  as 
follows:  two  multi-stakeholder  panels  would  be  held 
in  parallel  to  the  plenary  segment,  one  from  11  a.m. 
to  1  p.m.  and  the  other  from  3  p.m.  to  5  p.m.  The 
high-level  meeting  would  also  approve  a  concise  and 
action-oriented political declaration, agreed in advance 
by consensus through intergovernmental negotiations, 
to  be  submitted  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  adoption  by  the  Assembly,  and  request 
the President of the General Assembly, with the support 
of  the  World  Health  Organization  and  other  relevant 
partners,  to  organize  and  preside  over  an  interactive 
multi-stakeholder hearing, before the end of July 2019, 
with the active participation of appropriate senior-level 
representatives  of  Member  States,  observers  of  the 
General Assembly, parliamentarians, representatives of 
local Government, the relevant United Nations entities, 
non-governmental organizations in consultative status 
with  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  invited  civil-
society  organizations,  philanthropic 
foundations, 
academia,  medical  associations,  the  private  sector 
and  broader  communities,  ensuring  the  participation 
and  voices  of  women,  children,  youth  and  indigenous 
leadership,  as  part  of  the  preparatory  process  for  the 
high-level meeting. It would also request the President 
Pursuant to the decisions contained in paragraphs 
1,  4  and  6  of  the  draft  resolution,  it  is  envisaged  that 
the  following  meetings  will  be  held  in  New  York: 
a  one-day  high-level  meeting  on  universal  health 
coverage  on  23  September  2019  consisting  of  an 
opening  segment,  a  plenary  segment,  a  brief  closing 
segment  with  interpretation  in  all  six  languages, 
two  multi-stakeholder  panels  to  be  held  in  parallel 
on  23  September  2019  with  interpretation  in  all  six 
languages, and an interactive multi-stakeholder hearing 
before  the  end  of  July  2019.  While  interpretation 
services for the two segments of the high-level meeting 
and the interactive multi-stakeholder hearing would be 
provided using the meeting entitlements of the General 
Assembly, the remaining meetings would constitute an 
addition to the meetings workload for the Department 
for General Assembly and Conference Management in 
2019. However, the additional requirements for meeting 
services in the amount of $23,800 would be met from 
within existing resources.
Furthermore,  the  decision  contained  in  paragraph 
5 of the draft resolution would entail an addition to the 
documentation workload of the Department for General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management  in  2019  of 
one  post-session  document  of  10,700  words  in  all  six 
languages.  However,  the  additional  requirements  for 
documentation services in the amount of $32,500 would 
be  met  from  within  existing  resources.  Accordingly, 
should  the  General  Assembly  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.37, no additional requirements would arise under 
the programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019.
The  statement  that  I  have  just  read  out  has  been 
made available on the PaperSmart portal.
resolution  A/73/L.37  was 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.37?
adopted 
Draft 
(resolution 73/131).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.62, entitled 
“Global  health  and  foreign  policy:  a  healthier  world 
through better nutrition”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
18-43660
15/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of the draft resolution and in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
A/73/L.62:  Angola,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  the  Gambia, 
Guinea,  India,  Japan,  Lesotho,  Luxembourg,  Mexico, 
Madagascar,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Morocco, 
the 
Philippines, Portugal, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Sao Tome 
and  Principe,  Sweden,  Togo,  Turkey,  Uruguay  and 
Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  Before  we  proceed,  in 
accordance  with  rule  90  of  the  rules  of  procedure, 
the  Assembly  shall  first  take  a  decision  on  the  draft 
amendment  circulated  in  document  A/73/L.67.  A 
recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Hungary, Israel, Libya, United States of America
Against:
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia,  Canada, 
Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia, 
Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Djibouti,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gambia,  Ghana, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Honduras,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, 
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Pakistan,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea, Russian Federation, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Spain, 
Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu, 
Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Chile, Czech 
Republic,  Denmark,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Georgia, 
Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, 
Lithuania,  Norway,  Oman,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Poland, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Sweden, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Draft amendment A/73/L.67 was rejected by 4 votes 
to 117, with 27 abstentions.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  put  to  the  vote 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.62.  A  recorded  vote  has  been 
requested.
In favour:
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia, 
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador, 
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, 
France,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome 
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra 
16/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Libya, United States of America
Abstaining:
Hungary
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.62  was  adopted  by  157 
votes to 2, with 1 abstention (resolution 73/132).
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
for explanations of vote after the voting, may I remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Ms. Goebel (Germany): I have the honour to deliver 
this explanation of vote on behalf of Belgium, Bulgaria, 
Croatia,  Cyprus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands,  Poland,  Portugal,  Romania,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and my 
own country, Germany.
We have voted today in favour of resolution 73/132 
on the understanding that the text in its entirety reflects 
a  compromise  package.  With  regard  to  the  twenty-
second preambular paragraph, we would like to specify 
that  we  understand  that  paragraph  as  not  promoting 
an expansion of the rights of migrants in an irregular 
situation  within  our  countries,  beyond  what  has  been 
agreed previously in relevant international documents 
and what is in line with national legislation.
Mrs.  Stern  (Australia):  Australia  was  pleased  to 
vote in support of resolution 73/132, and we thank the 
Foreign Policy and Global Health Initiative for bringing 
it  forward.  Australia  takes  seriously  its  obligations 
under  international  law,  including  those  contained  in 
the  core  human  rights  instruments.  We  acknowledge 
that all States have an overarching obligation to respect, 
protect and promote the human rights of migrants and 
refugees.  Australia  does  not  support  conflating  this 
resolution with the global compact on migration, which 
is expected to be considered by the General Assembly 
next week. For that reason, we abstained in the voting on 
the twenty-second preambular paragraph, as contained 
in document A/73/L.67.
Mr.  Charwath  (Austria):  Austria  voted  in  favour 
of  resolution  73/132  today  despite  our  reservations 
regarding the twenty-second preambular paragraph, as 
we see the draft resolution in its entirety as a package 
on the important topic of global health, with this year’s 
focus on nutrition. In that regard, however, we reiterate 
that  Austria  does  not  support  the  global  compact  on 
migration and that it decides on migration issues in a 
fully sovereign manner, based solely on national laws 
and international treaties, duly ratified by the Austrian 
Parliament.  Therefore,  our  vote  today  cannot  be 
understood as accepting of an expansion of the rights 
of migrants.
Mrs.  Schneeberger  (Switzerland):  Switzerland 
thanks  the  core  group  for  its  efforts  to  bring  the 
negotiations  on  resolution  73/132,  entitled  “Global 
health  and  foreign  policy:  a  healthier  world  through 
better nutrition”, to an end. We regret that the resolution 
was put to the vote today. We would like to take this 
opportunity  to  clarify  our  position  on  certain  aspects 
of the resolution.
The global health and foreign policy resolution is 
historically rooted in the Oslo Ministerial Declaration 
and  focuses  on  one  of  its  specific  topics  every  year. 
This year’s resolution addresses the issue of nutrition. 
Switzerland  regrets  that  the  resolution  is  not  more 
focused  on  the  topic.  The  text  before  us  includes  a 
variety  of  subjects  not  directly  related  to  nutrition. 
We  believe  that  those  subjects  should  be  discussed 
in  the  appropriate  forums.  One  example  is  the  issue 
of  access  to  medicines  mentioned  in  the  fifteenth 
preambular paragraph.
With  regard  to  this  particular  topic,  Switzerland 
takes a holistic approach including all relevant factors 
that  contribute  to  access  to  medical  products.  There 
are  many  reports  in  that  regard,  and  we  do  not  see  a 
reason to single out one specific reference. Switzerland 
welcomes the fact that this year’s resolution has taken 
up  nutrition.  Switzerland  is  convinced  that  nutrition 
plays  a  critical  role  for  health  and  development.  In 
addition, this year’s resolution is fully in the spirit of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 
multisectoral nature.
18-43660
17/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
Mrs.  Bernal  Prado  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Chile  has  reservations  concerning 
the twenty-second preambular paragraph of resolution 
73/132.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 129.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Draft decision A/73/L.38
The Acting President: As announced in the letter 
from  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  dated 
27 November 2018, draft decision A/73/L.38 is orally 
revised  by  adding  to  the  end  of  paragraph  (f)  the 
following text:
“..., subject to the provisions in the resolution entitled 
‘Scope, modalities, format and organization of the 
high-level meeting on universal health coverage’”.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
decision  A/73.L.38,  entitled  “High-level  meetings 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  September  2019”,  as 
orally revised.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  This  oral  statement 
is  made  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under  the  terms  of  paragraphs  (a),  (b),  (c),  (d), 
(e)  and  (f)  of  draft  decision  A/73/L.38,  the  General 
Assembly would decide that the general debate of the 
seventy-fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  will 
be held from Tuesday, 24 September 2019 to Saturday, 
28  September  2019  and  on  Monday,  30  September 
2019;  to  hold  the  high-level  meeting  on  universal 
health coverage on Monday, 23 September from 9 a.m. 
to  1  p.m.  and  from  3  p.m.  to  6  p.m.,  in  accordance 
with resolution 72/139; to hold the high-level political 
forum under the auspices of the General Assembly on 
Tuesday, 24 September, from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. and on 
Wednesday, 25 September, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 
from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.; to hold the High-level Dialogue 
on Financing for Development of the General Assembly 
on Thursday, 26 September, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 
from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., and to hold on the same day the 
high-level  meeting  to  commemorate  and  promote  the 
International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear 
Weapons,  from  11  a.m.  to  1  p.m.  and  from  3  p.m.  to 
6 p.m., in accordance with resolution 72/251.
Furthermore,  as  indicated  in  the  letter  from  the 
President of the General Assembly dated 27 November, 
following action on draft resolution A/73/L.37, entitled 
“Scope,  modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the 
high-level meeting on universal health coverage”, draft 
decision A/73/L.38 is to be orally revised before action 
on it by adding to the end of paragraph (f) in the text:
“..., subject to the provisions in the resolution entitled 
‘Scope, modalities, format and organization of the 
high-level meeting on universal health coverage’”.
Pursuant to the decision contained in paragraph (b) 
of the draft decision, it is envisaged that the following 
meetings will be held in New York: a one-day high-level 
meeting on universal health coverage, on 23 September, 
consisting  of  an  opening  segment,  a  plenary  segment 
and a brief closing segment, with interpretation in all 
six languages; and two multi-stakeholder panels to be 
held in parallel on 23 September, with interpretation in 
all six languages and an interactive multi-stakeholder 
hearing  before  the  end  of  July.  While  interpretation 
services for the two segments of the high-level meeting 
and the interactive multi-stakeholder hearing would be 
provided using the meeting entitlements of the General 
Assembly, the remaining meetings would constitute an 
addition to the meetings workload for the Department 
for General Assembly and Conference Management in 
2019. However, the additional requirements for meeting 
services in the amount of $23,800 would be met from 
within existing resources.
Furthermore,  the  decision  contained  in  paragraph 
(b)  of  the  draft  resolution  would  entail  an  addition  to 
the  documentation  workload  of  the  Department  for 
General  Assembly  and  Conference  Management  in 
2019 of one post-session document of 10,700 words, in 
all six languages. However, the additional requirements 
for  documentation  services  in  the  amount  of  $32,500 
would be met from within existing resources.
The  meetings  and  documentation  requirements  in 
the aforementioned fourth and fifth paragraphs of this 
oral statement were also indicated in the oral statement 
read  out  and  distributed  upon  the  adoption  of  draft 
resolution A/73/L.37.
18/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
Pursuant  to  the  decision  contained  in  paragraphs 
(c)  and  (d)  of  the  draft  decision,  it  is  envisaged  that 
the  high-level  political  forum  under  the  auspices  of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Financing for Development and the high-level meeting 
to  commemorate  and  promote  the  International  Day 
for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons will be 
utilizing existing entitlements.
Pursuant  to  the  decision  contained  in  paragraph 
(e) of the draft decision, it is envisaged that the high-
level  meeting  to  review  progress  made  in  addressing 
the  priorities  of  small 
island  developing  States 
(SIDS)  through  the  implementation  of  the  SIDS 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway 
on  27  September,  in  New  York,  will  consist  of  two 
meetings  with  interpretation  in  six  languages.  The 
meetings would constitute an addition to the meetings 
workload  for  the  Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management  in  2019.  However,  the 
requirements  for  meeting  services  in  the  amount  of 
$11,900 would be met from within existing resources.
Pursuant to the decisions contained in paragraphs 
(b),  (c),  (d)  and  (e)  of  the  draft  decision,  it  is  also 
envisaged that the high-level meetings would constitute 
an addition to the meetings and media coverage, media 
accreditation  and  liaison  and  audiovisual  services  for 
the Department of Public Information in 2019. However, 
the  requirements  in  the  amount  of  $51,600  would  be 
met from within existing resources.
Accordingly,  should  the  General  Assembly  adopt 
draft  decision  A/73/L.38,  no  additional  requirements 
would  arise  under  the  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 2018-2019.
The statement I have just read out has been made 
available on the PaperSmart portal.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft decision 
A/73/L.38, as orally revised?
Draft  decision  A/73/L.38,  as  orally  revised,  was 
adopted (decision 73/524).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 7.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Draft resolution (A/73/L.40/Rev.1)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Egypt  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.40/Rev.1.
Mr. Khalil (Egypt): On behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China,  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Graduation  of  countries  from 
the  least  developed  country  category”,  contained  in 
document A/73/L.40/Rev.1.
The  draft  resolution  pertains  to  the  graduation 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan,  Solomon  Islands  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  from 
the least developed country (LDC) category.
Since  the  creation  of  the  least  developed  country 
category  in  1971,  only  five  countries  have  graduated 
from  it.  Two  more  are  to  be  graduated  in  2020  and 
2021. Therefore, the graduation of an additional three 
countries, which is at the core of the decision that the 
General  Assembly  is  about  to  take  today,  is  a  very 
positive  development  and  should  be  welcomed  and 
celebrated  by  the  entire  international  community. 
More importantly, graduation from the LDC category 
represents  a  clear  and  strong  signal  that  those  three 
countries  are  on  the  right  development  trajectory 
towards achieving sustainable development and should 
be commended for their development achievements.
The Group would like to stress that the graduating 
countries,  with  the  full  support  of  the  international 
community,  should  be  put  on  a  path  of  sustainable 
development  to  minimize  the  risk  of  backsliding 
after  graduation.  As  the  three  graduating  countries 
begin preparations for their smooth national transition 
strategies, we call on development partners, including 
the  United  Nations, 
that  existing 
vulnerabilities to economic and environmental shocks 
will not be overcome simply by graduating out of the 
LDC category. Therefore, we call on all development and 
trading partners to assist the three graduating countries 
and  provide  them  with  country-specific  support  over 
the  preparatory  period  and  beyond  to  ensure  smooth 
sailing in their transition out of the LDC category.
recognize 
to 
On behalf of the Group of 77 and China, I would 
like to thank all partners involved in the negotiations 
18-43660
19/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
on  the  draft  resolution.  We  hope  that  the  General 
Assembly will adopt it by consensus.
those involved. It is in our interest to ensure a successful 
transition process.
Finally,  the  Group  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
delegations  of  Nepal  and  Canada  for  their  efforts 
in  co-facilitating  the  draft  resolution,  as  well  as  the 
delegation  of  Bhutan  for  coordinating  it  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.40/Rev.1, entitled 
“Graduation  of  countries  from  the  least  developed 
country category”.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.40/Rev.1?
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.40/Rev.1  was  adopted 
(resolution 73/133).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor for 
explanations of position on the resolution just adopted, 
may I remind delegations that explanations are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Tealei  (Tuvalu):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  members 
represented  at  the  United  Nations:  Australia,  the 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Fiji,  Kiribati,  the 
Marshall  Islands,  Nauru,  New  Zealand,  Palau,  Papua 
New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu 
and my own country, Tuvalu.
First, we would like to thank the Group of 77 and 
China for introducing resolution 73/133 and Nepal and 
Canada for their able facilitation of the resolution.
Graduation  from  the  least  developed  country 
(LDC)  category  is  an  important  milestone  on  a 
country’s road to sustainable development and should 
be something that countries strive to achieve. However, 
if  countries  are  not  fully  ready,  graduation  instead 
brings  fear  and  regret.  Therefore,  graduation  must  be 
undertaken cautiously and mutually so as to ensure that 
it is sustainable.
The  word  “graduation”  itself  implies  a  gradual 
process rather than a cliff. To protect the development 
trajectory  that  led  to  graduation  in  the  first  place,  it 
is  crucial  that  the  process  avoid  uncertainty  and  the 
potentially  rapid  loss  of  economic  and  development 
gains beyond graduation. We know that a slower, more 
deliberate  transition  process  is  more  likely  to  create 
successful conditions for sustainable graduation for all 
The  Pacific  is  a  unique  region,  with  unique 
vulnerabilities  and  operating  challenges.  We  share 
many of those vulnerabilities and challenges with our 
other  brothers  and  sisters  in  small  island  developing 
States (SIDS) around the world. Many SIDS are highly 
vulnerable  to  economic  shocks  and  natural  disasters. 
Despite  being  middle-income  countries,  SIDS  also 
struggle  to  attract  certain  forms  of  financing  and 
investment. Susceptibility to fragility and conflict can 
also  affect  access  to  financing.  Some  of  our  Pacific 
countries  have  graduated  from  the  least  developed 
country  category  or  are  on  their  way.  Others  face 
obstacles that make graduation seem beyond our reach.
Even after graduation, we remain highly vulnerable 
due to the impact of climate change and the risk of natural 
disasters. Gross national income (GNI) per capita does 
not  reflect  vulnerabilities,  nor  does  rising  GNI  make 
them go away. The Pacific Islands Forum considers that 
the mid-term review of the SIDS Accelerated Modalities 
of Action (SAMOA) Pathway next year will be an ideal 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  synergies  between  the 
development  needs  of  SIDS  and  LDCs  and  to  ensure 
that  support  measures  for  both  are  consistent  and  fit 
for  purpose.  It  will  also  be  an  opportunity  to  ensure 
that the graduation process helps graduating countries 
build the resilience they will need, not just to protect 
but to extend their development achievement. We look 
forward to working with all those present towards that 
end in 2019.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 9.
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related field
Draft resolution (A/73/L.50)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Mongolia to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.50.
Mr.  Sukhee  (Mongolia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
introduce draft resolution A/73/L.50, entitled “Education 
for democracy”, on behalf of the sponsors representing 
20/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
various  regions  and  my  own  country,  Mongolia.  The 
text, which has been agreed by all delegations attending 
the 
includes  meaningful 
advancements to promote education for democracy.
informal  consultations, 
We reaffirm the fundamental link among democratic 
governance,  peace,  development  and  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms,  which  are  interdependent  and  mutually 
reinforcing,  and  we  also  recognize  that  education 
contributes  to  the  strengthening  of  democracy,  good 
governance and the rule of law at all levels.
In the draft resolution, we recall that the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  targets  are  integrated  and 
indivisible and that they balance the three dimensions 
of  sustainable  development.  We  acknowledge  the 
importance of taking measures to ensure inclusive and 
equitable  quality  education  and  of  promoting  lifelong 
learning  opportunities  for  all,  including  expanded 
opportunities for all children, particularly girls’ access 
to quality education.
We  also  recognize  that  education  for  democracy 
nurtures  responsible  and  active  learners,  capable  of 
contributing effectively to peace and prosperity in their 
societies  and  beyond.  Furthermore,  Member  States 
and  national,  regional  and  local  education  authorities 
are encouraged, as appropriate, to make further efforts 
to  strengthen,  through  education,  the  connections 
among  democratic  governance,  peace,  sustainable 
development  and  the  promotion  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms. Moreover, we acknowledge the 
important contributions of civil society, academia, the 
private sector and other stakeholders, including United 
Nations agencies, funds and programmes, in support of 
democracy and education for democracy.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our 
gratitude to all the delegations that participated actively 
in  our  discussions  on  the  draft  text,  as  well  as  to  all 
sponsors for their support.
In conclusion, on behalf of all the sponsors, I would 
like  to  express  our  hope  that  the  draft  resolution  will 
receive  the  unanimous  support  of  Member  States  and 
wide co-sponsorship, as it has in previous years.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.50, entitled 
“Education for Democracy”.
to 
representative  of 
floor 
the 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution, 
in  addition  to  the  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/73/L.50,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Andorra,  Argentina, 
Austria,  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Canada,  the 
Central  African  Republic,  Costa  Rica,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Finland,  Germany,  Greece, 
Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, 
Latvia,  Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Morocco,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
Romania,  San  Marino,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Sweden, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo, 
Tunisia, Turkey and Uruguay.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.50?
Draft resolution A/73/L.50 was adopted (resolution 
73/134).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers  in  explanation  of  position  on  the  resolution 
just adopted, I remind delegations that explanations are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr.  Ordeman  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States believes that education is transformational 
for individuals and societies and that it creates pathways 
to  better  health,  economic  growth,  a  sustainable 
environment and peaceful democratic societies.
On  15  November,  the  United  States  Agency  for 
International Development announced a new education 
policy aimed at focusing resources on programmes that 
produce  measurable  learning  outcomes  for  students. 
The  new  policy  also  recognizes  the  important  role  of 
non-State actors, including civil-society organizations, 
faith-based  and  charitable  entities  and  the  private 
sector, in providing educational opportunities that help 
students  gain  access  to  the  education  and  skills  that 
they need to be productive members of society.
While  the  United  States  joined  the  consensus  on 
resolution 73/134, on education for democracy, we do so 
with the express understanding that when the resolution 
acknowledges  the  importance  of  taking  measures  to 
ensure various aspects of education, it does so in terms 
that are mindful of and consistent with the governance 
framework for education in the United States and our 
respective federal, state and local authorities.
18-43660
21/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
in 
We  see  significant  variation 
the  capacity 
and  effectiveness  of  many  nations’  Governments  in 
providing  high-quality  education.  In  many  instances, 
non-State  schools  and  providers,  which  often  include 
faith-based  and  charitable  organizations,  are  stepping 
in to fill gaps that would otherwise prevent access to 
education  for  many  children  and  youth.  Currently,  in 
low-income  countries,  non-State  schools  enrol  nearly 
14  per  cent  of  primary  school-age  students,  and  in 
lower middle-income countries the enrolment rate for 
primary school-age students rises to 24 per cent.
The United States believes that there is both a need 
and an opportunity to engage with non-State schools, 
including those of faith-based and charitable entities, to 
help ensure access to quality education for children and 
youth in developing countries. We further understand 
the reference in the resolution to internationally agreed 
development  goals  to  refer  to  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. The United States position is 
articulated in the following explanation of position on 
that document.
With regard to the references to the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  in  the  resolution,  we 
addressed our concerns regarding such references in a 
general explanation of position delivered on 8 November 
in  the  Second  Committee  and  in  an  explanation  of 
position  delivered  in  the  General  Assembly  regarding 
resolution  73/24,  entitled  “Sport  as  an  enabler  of 
sustainable  development”,  which  was  adopted  under 
agenda item 12 on 3 December (see A/73/PV.44).
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of position after the voting.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 14.
Agenda item 128 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
Draft resolution (A/73/L.45)
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Bangladesh  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/73/L.45.
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  In  my  capacity 
as  Chair  of  the  group  of  States  members  of  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  in  New  York, 
I  have  the  pleasure  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.45,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation”. 
The draft resolution is consistent with the spirit, mission 
and purposes of resolution 3369 (XXX),. of 10 October 
1975,  in  which  the  Assembly  decided  to  invite  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  to  participate  in 
the decisions and work of the General Assembly and its 
subsidiary organs in the capacity of observer.
In  its  preambular  paragraphs,  the  draft  resolution 
reaffirms  the  common  purpose  and  shared  objectives 
of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  the 
United  Nations  in  conflict  prevention  and  resolution, 
confidence-building,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding, 
post-conflict  rehabilitation,  mediation  and  preventive 
diplomacy,  and  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace 
through  dialogue  and  cooperation,  especially 
in 
connection  with  conflict  situations  involving  Muslim 
communities around the world.
by 
the 
two 
pursued 
It  welcomes,  inter  alia,  the  initiatives  on  interfaith 
dialogue 
organizations. 
Furthermore, the draft resolution highlights the desire 
of  the  two  organizations  to  work  more  closely  in  the 
political,  economic,  social,  humanitarian,  cultural 
and  scientific  fields  and  in  their  common  search  for 
solutions to global issues of concern, such as questions 
relating to international peace and security, respect for 
territorial  integrity,  disarmament,  self-determination, 
decolonization, the promotion and protection of human 
rights, economic and social development and combating 
international terrorism.
Among other issues, the draft resolution recognizes 
the  existing  cooperation  between  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation and the Office for the Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs.  In  its  operative  paragraphs, 
the  draft  resolution  reaffirms  the  shared  goals  of  the 
two  organizations  in  promoting  and  facilitating  the 
Middle  East  peace  process.  It  further  acknowledges 
the cooperation of the two organizations in combating 
intolerance, the stigmatization of persons based on their 
religion or beliefs and preventing violent extremism as 
and when conducive to terrorism.
Today we are witnessing the increasing importance 
and utility of dynamic cooperation between the United 
Nations and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. 
Indeed,  in  the  face  of  protracted  as  well  as  emerging 
22/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
conflicts around the world, such cooperation between 
the two organizations is an important strategic value.
take 
this  opportunity 
In  conclusion,  we 
to 
express  our  thanks  and  appreciation  to  delegations 
for  their  interest  in,  and  engagement  with,  the  draft 
resolution.  I  now  request  that  all  States  members  of 
the General Assembly adopt draft resolution A/73/L.45 
by consensus.
The Acting President: We shall now take a decision 
on  draft  resolution  A/73.L.45,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation”.
Before giving the floor to those representatives who 
wish to speak in explanation of vote before the voting, 
I would like to remind delegations that explanations are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr.  Charwath  (Austria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  its 
member States.
The  candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia  and 
Albania align themselves with this statement.
The European Union and its member States support 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.45,  on  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation (OIC) and encourage further cooperation 
between  the  two  organizations.  With  reference  to 
the  language  contained  in  the  draft  resolution,  which 
notes  the  2025  Programme  of  Action  of  the  OIC, 
the  EU  stresses  that  such  language  does  not  imply 
any  endorsement  of  the  declarations,  decisions  and 
resolutions adopted by the OIC forums, which should 
be fully consistent with General Assembly and Security 
Council resolutions and in full respect of international 
law and the Charter of the United Nations, including, 
notably, the principle contained in Article 2.7.
In  that  regard,  we  wish  to  put  on  record  that  the 
provisions  of  the  OIC  2025  Programme  of  Action 
related  to  Cyprus  are  not  consistent  with  existing 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions. 
We  therefore  urge  the  OIC  to  refrain  from  adopting 
positions  that  would  undermine  international  law  and 
the Charter of the United Nations. The EU trusts that 
its position will be taken into account in future so that 
it can continue to support the resolution.
Mr.  Al-Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation would like to express its position 
on agenda item 128 (b) and draft resolution A/73/L.45, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation”.
The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  is  one  of  the  founding 
States of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) 
and  will  remain  so  despite  the  artificial  performance 
staged by the Government of the OIC host country in 
August  2012,  when  it  exerted,  as  usual,  political  and 
financial  pressure  on  certain  OIC  States  to  suspend 
Syria’s membership through an illegitimate resolution 
in violation of the Organization’s rules of procedure.
My  country  has  excellent,  friendly  and  steadfast 
relations with most members of the OIC. We appreciate 
that  many  Governments  and  peoples  of  OIC  member 
States remained at Syria’s side as we fought a terrorist 
war  that  was  imposed  on  us.  However,  the  position 
that  we  express  today  is  put  forward  in  response  to 
the  irregular  practices  of  the  Government  of  the  OIC 
host country, which contravene the rules of procedure 
that  govern  the  Organization  and  the  principles  of 
democracy,  governance  and  equality  of  rights  and 
responsibilities among Member States.
These irregular  practices of the Government of the 
OIC host country require a new, comprehensive review 
and evaluation of the performance of the OIC. It is no 
secret  that  many  OIC  member  States  are  dissatisfied 
with these undemocratic practices, which depart from 
the principle of collective action and have been imposed 
on  them  by  the  Government  of  the  OIC  host  country. 
That Government imposes its vision, will, agenda and 
national interests on the OIC.
In  that  regard,  my  country  has  reservations  on 
paragraph  81  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/73/328), on cooperation between the United Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations,  pertaining  to 
the situation in the Syrian Arab Republic. My country 
will continue to reject any role envisaged by the OIC 
that is dictated by the policies and practices of the host 
country’s Government, which are based on supporting 
armed  terrorist  and  extremist  groups  in  Syria  while 
obstructing  any  political  solution  and 
interfering 
destructively  and  dangerously  in  the  internal  affairs 
of Syria.
My country has suffered from global terrorism to 
a  degree  unprecedented  in  the  history  of  humankind. 
The  Syrian  people  have  paid  a  heavy  price  in  blood 
18-43660
23/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
and in the loss of economic, industrial and agricultural 
gains  that  were  realized  after  decades  of  hard  work. 
The  Syrian  people  will  never  forget  or  pardon  any 
Government that has supported and financed terrorism 
directly or by failing to shoulder its responsibility, or 
that has promoted terrorism politically and by means of 
the media and extremist religious platforms.
My country will never forget that tens of thousands 
of foreign terrorist fighters who embrace the Wahhabi 
extremist ideology have flooded areas of conflict and 
fighting in Syria from more than 100 States members of 
the United Nations. Regrettably, most of those terrorists 
came  from  OIC  member  States.  It  is  evident  that  the 
recruitment and funding of tens of thousands of foreign 
terrorist  fighters  and  their  ease  of  passage  to  Syria 
were  not  coincidental  or  random  events.  Rather,  they 
were an organized and systematic process carried out 
by certain Governments based on political and military 
investment in terrorism and extremist ideology with a 
view  to  achieving  the  political  objectives  of  bringing 
down  the  legitimate  Government  in  Syria,  spreading 
chaos  in  the  country  and  undermining  its  cultural 
identity,  which  has  existed  for  centuries  and  is  based 
on  peaceful  coexistence,  tolerance  and  religious  and 
cultural diversity.
The  millions  of  dollars  spent  by  the  OIC  host 
Government  to  get  political  cover  from  influential 
countries and silence the voice of conscience will not 
change the fact that it is responsible for the extremist 
terrorist Wahhabi ideology embraced by terrorist groups 
since  the  creation  of  Al-Qaida,  Da’esh,  the  Al-Nusra 
Front  and  Hayat  Tahrir  Al-Sham  and  all  affiliated 
armed  terrorist  groups.  That  ideology  has  threatened 
international peace and security, undermined the image 
of Islam and Muslims and sabotaged the commitment 
of the OIC to promoting peace, tolerance and dialogue 
among civilizations.
The OIC host country is responsible for the worst 
humanitarian  disaster  and  famine  in  the  history  of 
mankind  in  Yemen,  which  has  led  to  the  killing, 
displacement and starvation of 20 million Yemenis, the 
destruction of the infrastructure of the country and the 
spread of epidemics, such as cholera, on a scale not seen 
in the world in the last 50 years. The OIC host country is 
responsible for fuelling sectarian divisions, leading to 
wars between Muslim communities, in order to realize 
selfish and destructive political objectives, which will 
eventually lead to more conflicts and wars in the Middle 
East, merely because the Government of the OIC host 
country  decided  to  create  a  situation  of  unjustified 
hostility towards certain OIC Member States.
Above  all,  the  Palestinian  question  is  no  longer 
a  priority  for  the  OIC,  even  though  it  was  created  in 
1969 to defend the Palestinian question and Jerusalem 
after an arson attack by an extremist terrorist against 
Al-Masjid  Al-Aqsa.  However,  everyone  should  know 
that the rights of the Palestinian people and the rights 
of the people of the occupied Syrian Golan will never 
be the subject of a deal or the negotiating tool of any 
Government  or  party  that  does  not  have  the  right 
or  mandate  to  determine  the  fate  of  the  occupied 
Arab territories.
Nonetheless,  my  country  will  continue  to  believe 
in  the  pioneering  role  of  international  and  regional 
organizations.  Hence,  it  expects  the  OIC  and  its 
member  States  to  be  able  one  day  to  collectively 
conduct a true review of the methodology and work of 
the  organization  and  to  rid  itself  of  the  financial  and 
political polarization that has, regrettably, been brought 
about by the host Government.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  Syria,  what  is 
required of the OIC is to restore its free decision-making 
ability and to exercise the true will of the overwhelming 
majority  of  its  members.  The  OIC  should  coordinate 
and cooperate directly with the Syrian Government in 
the combat against terrorism and religious extremism, 
from which, regrettably, false stereotypical links have 
been  made  between  Islam  and  terrorism.  The  OIC 
should  support  Syrian  efforts  regarding  building  and 
reconstruction;  facilitating  the  return  of  refugees  and 
displaced persons; putting an end to all forms of foreign 
occupation; and achieving a political settlement that is 
determined by Syrians without foreign intervention.
In  conclusion,  the  position  of  my  country  is  not 
and  will  not  be  directed  against  the  OIC,  which  we 
established to be a forum that reflects the true identity 
of  Islam  as  a  religion  of  peace,  coexistence  and 
amity.  We  express  this  position  in  order  to  sound  the 
alarm, so that the OIC will return to its true path. Our 
position flows from our commitment to the principles 
of democracy, transparency and equality in rights and 
duties among OIC member States. That prompts us to 
ask for a recorded vote on draft resolution A/73/L.45.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
24/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
I give the floor to the representative of Bangladesh 
on a point of order.
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh,  on 
behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Cooperation,  is  disappointed  to  see  that  the 
delegation  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  has  broken 
consensus  on  the  text  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.45 
by asking for a vote on the draft. The text of the draft 
resolution  consists  of  agreed  language  from  previous 
resolutions  and  is  consistent  with  the  mandate  of  the 
Organization for Islamic Cooperation and the relevant 
instruments  and  resolutions  of  the  United  Nations. 
We therefore request all States to vote in favour of the 
draft resolution.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Syrian Arab Republic on a point 
of order.
Mr.  Al-Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I understood that my colleague the Permanent 
Representative  of  Bangladesh  had  asked  for  the  floor 
on  a  point  of  order.  However,  he  spoke  about  the 
draft  resolution.  In  any  case,  it  is  not  true  that  there 
is  consensual  language  in  the  draft  resolution  under 
consideration because it was voted on last year. Hence, 
he cannot consider it to be agreed language.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.45, entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
to 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution, and in addition to those delegations listed in 
document A/73/L.45, the following countries have also 
become sponsors of the draft resolution: Afghanistan, 
Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Benin, Brunei 
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Djibouti,  Egypt,  Gabon,  the  Gambia, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Indonesia, the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, the Niger, Nigeria, 
Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra 
Leone, Somalia, the Sudan, Suriname, Tajikistan, Togo, 
Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  the  United 
Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan and Yemen.
The Acting President: A recorded vote has been 
requested  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.45,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation”.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina 
Faso,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  China, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, 
Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States  of  America,  Vanuatu,  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
None
Abstaining:
Armenia,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  India,  Israel, 
Syrian Arab Republic
18-43660
25/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
Draft resolution A/73/L.45 was adopted by 139 votes 
to none, with 6 abstentions (resolution 73/135).
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Afghanistan 
informed the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.]
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
to  representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  explanation 
of vote on the resolution just adopted, I would like to 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr. Grigoryan (Armenia): I would like to present 
the position of Armenia on resolution 73/135, entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation”.
Like  most  of  the  members  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation (OIC), my country’s shared history 
stretches  back  many  centuries.  Armenia  enjoys  and 
will spare no effort to further deepen cordial relations 
with  those  States.  With  respect  to  the  resolution  just 
adopted,  the  delegation  of  Armenia  would  like  to 
reiterate  the  importance  of  fostering  the  resolution 
of  disputes  and  supporting  efforts  for  the  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts within internationally mandated 
negotiation formats.
Furthermore,  Armenia  notes  with  regret 
the 
reference  to  the  OIC  2025  Programme  of  Action  in 
the  preambular  part  of  the  resolution.  The  document 
contains  formulations  that  blatantly  contravene  the 
basic  principles  of  the  settlement  of  the  Nagorno 
Karabakh  conflict.  We  call  upon  the  States  members 
of  the  OIC,  when  making  references  to  Nagorno 
Karabakh conflict resolution, to adhere to the language 
and  formulations  contained  in  the  proposals  of  the 
Minsk  Group  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  co-chairmanship  —  the  only 
internationally agreed and mandated format — and to 
reject any attempts by one member State to misuse the 
OIC platform to misrepresent and distort the process of 
conflict resolution.
that  unfairly  single  out  Israel  for  criticism.  Canada 
rejects  one-sided  resolutions  and  any  politicization  of 
the issues.
Mr. Ordeman (United States of America): While 
the United States voted in favour of resolution 73/135, 
we  would  like  to  make  it  clear  that  we  once  again 
dissociate  ourselves  from  the  preambular  paragraph 
that  makes  mention  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation  2025  Programme  of  Action.  The  United 
States views the 2025 Programme of Action’s treatment 
of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict,  in  particular,  as 
one-sided, politicized and biased in a way that does not 
contribute positively to efforts to resolve the conflict.
Ms.  Fisher-Tsin 
(Israel):  Resolution  73/135, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)”, refers 
to the OIC Programme of Action that was adopted in 
2016. Not only does the Programme of Action contain 
biased  information  against  Israel,  but  it  employs 
language that is simply untrue.
It is regrettable to see the hijacking of yet another 
organization to promote the anti-Israel agenda, which 
does nothing to encourage dialogue and does nothing 
for peace. Because of our strong bilateral relations with 
some  OIC  members,  Israel  did  not  vote  against  this 
resolution. However, I request the official record to show 
that Israel dissociates itself from the fourth preambular 
paragraph of the resolution, which begins “Noting the 
adoption by the Islamic Summit Conference”.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote.
to  speak 
Several  delegations  have  asked 
in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Denktaş (Turkey): I wish to state the following 
in the exercise of our right of reply to the statement made 
today by the observer of the European Union (EU).
Ms. Galarneau (Canada): Canada strongly supports 
resolution  73/135  and  its  objective  of  strengthening 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC).  However, 
we  wish  to  dissociate  ourselves  from  the  fourth 
preambular  paragraph,  as  Canada  opposes  initiatives 
at the United Nations and in other multilateral forums 
Turkey supports the settlement of the Cyprus issue, 
as was clearly demonstrated at the last round of talks that 
ended in failure in Crans-Montana in July 2017 and at the 
previous attempt in 2004. Only a negotiated settlement 
based  on  dialogue  and  diplomacy  can  be  sustainable. 
We  will  continue  to  engage  with  all  relevant  parties 
on that understanding. In the meantime, we call upon 
26/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
all parties to contribute to these efforts without bias or 
prejudice. We regret, however, that the explanation of 
vote read on behalf of the EU today and the approach 
that it reflects are examples to the contrary.
of  the  fraternal  Syrian  people.  It  supports  resolutions 
pertaining  to  Syria.  A  recent  example  of  that  is  the 
support  of  the  OIC  and  its  members  for  resolution 
73/100, entitled “The occupied Syrian Golan”.
The  EU  has 
admitted 
full  member,  despite 
the  Greek-Cypriot 
Administration  as  a 
the 
overwhelming  Greek-Cypriot  vote  in  2004  against 
a  comprehensive  settlement.  That  position  is  totally 
disconnected  from  the  facts  and  continues  to  be  in 
contravention  of  the  very  treaties  that  founded  the 
bicommunal partnership republic in 1960. Since then, 
the EU has been unable to adopt a balanced position on 
the  Cyprus  issue.  The  explanation  of  vote  read  today 
reminds us once again that as long as the EU continues 
to espouse this biased approach, it will not be able to 
contribute to impartial efforts to reach a solution.
As  for  the  document  referred  to  in  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  EU  representative,  the  plain  fact  is 
that  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation’s  2025 
Programme of Action is fully in line with international 
law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Its 
provisions  related  to  the  Cyprus  issue  describe  some 
of  the  necessary  components  of  a  viable  solution  that 
will be based upon the political equality of both sides 
on the island. We regard any contrary initiative as ill-
intentioned  and  as  an  attempt  to  further  hinder  the 
settlement  of  the  Cyprus  dispute.  Such  a  settlement 
would  undoubtedly  contribute  to  the  security  and 
prosperity of the entire eastern Mediterranean region. 
We  therefore  urge  the  EU  to  play  a  positive  role  in 
efforts to that end and, accordingly, to keep its promises 
to the Turkish Cypriots.
Mr. Alhakbani (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): 
Allow  me  to  exercise  the  right  of  reply  to  what  the 
representative  of  Syria  said  about  my  country,  which 
is  the  host  country  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation (OIC).
We strongly reject the false and invalid accusations 
made by the representative of Syria against my country. 
We  have  grown  accustomed  to  the  representatives  of 
the  Syrian  authorities  distorting  facts  and  lying  in 
their statements. That is no surprise, coming from the 
representative  of  the  Syrian  Government,  which  has 
violated  all  international  laws  and  norms  as  well  as 
humanitarian and ethical laws.
The OIC, which was attacked by the representative 
of Syria because of the suspension of its membership 
in the OIC, is the organization that defends the causes 
Syria’s  membership  in  the  OIC  was  suspended 
because of the crimes and violations perpetrated by the 
Syrian Government against the unarmed Syrian people. 
The Syrian Government is responsible for the murder of 
more than half a million Syrians and the displacement 
of  nearly  7  million  people  externally  and  6  million 
people internally. Is that not reason enough to suspend 
its  membership  in  the  OIC?  The  Syrian  Government 
has  perpetrated  crimes  against  the  Syrian  people  and 
has used internationally prohibited weapons, including 
toxic gases and barrel bombs. Is that not reason enough 
to  suspend  its  membership  in  the  OIC?  The  Syrian 
Government is detaining tens of thousands of Syrians 
in  its  jails,  subjecting  them  to  torture  and  starvation, 
and has murdered women, children and the elderly. Is 
that  not  reason  enough  to  suspend  its  membership  in 
the OIC?
All of the Syrian Government’s attempts to divert 
attention away from the gross and blatant violations it 
has perpetrated against its people will never succeed. 
That  is  why  its  OIC  membership  was  suspended.  It 
is  regrettable  that  the  representative  of  the  Syrian 
Government opposed resolution 73/135, which calls for 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OIC.
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  I  would 
to 
exercise my right of reply to the comments made by the 
delegation of Armenia.
like 
As  is  well  known,  the  continuing  aggression  of 
Armenia against Azerbaijan and the resulting military 
occupation of the territories of my country amount to 
serious breaches of obligations arising from peremptory 
norms of general international law. Consequently, the 
international  community  as  a  whole  has  a  legitimate 
interest  and  is  committed,  under  international  law,  to 
putting an end to those breaches by lawful means.
The  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC) 
has  consistently  expressed  its  principled  position  on 
the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan and has 
reaffirmed that the acquisition of territory through the 
use  of  force  is  inadmissible  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and international law; urged the strict 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  822 
(1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993); called for 
the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal 
18-43660
27/29
A/73/PV.52 
13/12/2018
of  the  armed  forces  of  Armenia  from  the  Nagorno 
Karabakh  region  and  other  occupied  territories  of 
Azerbaijan; and called for the resolution of the conflict 
on the basis of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and 
inviolability of the internationally recognized borders 
of Azerbaijan.
The OIC’s position fully complies with international 
law and the relevant Council and Assembly resolutions. 
The  resolutions  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  OIC,  including  the  one  just  adopted 
(resolution  A/73/135),  make  it  clear  that  the  two 
organizations share the common objective of fostering 
peaceful  and  political  solutions 
in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
the relevant Council resolutions. That same position was 
expressed by the Council in its presidential statement of 
28 October 2013 (S/PRST/2013/16).
to  conflicts 
Instead  of  blaming  others,  Armenia  must  look 
at  itself  and  realize,  finally,  that  the  achievement 
of  peace,  security  and  stability  will  be  possible  only 
if  the  consequences  of  Armenia’s  aggression  are 
eliminated  —  that  is,  if  Armenia’s  armed  forces 
immediately, unconditionally and completely withdraw 
from the territories of Azerbaijan; the sovereignty and 
territorial integrity of my country are restored; and the 
right  of  internally  displaced  Azerbaijanis  to  return  to 
their homes and properties is guaranteed and fulfilled.
Ms.  Ioannou  (Cyprus):  I  regret  having  to  take 
the  floor  in  right  of  reply  in  respect  of  the  statement 
recently made by Turkey. Let me first invite the Turkish 
delegation  not  to  refer  to  my  country  with  the  use  of 
arbitrary names it has unilaterally coined, but rather to 
respect the official name of Cyprus as a State Member 
of the United Nations.
I will not speak to the compatibility of the language 
of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  regarding 
Cyprus with the language in Security Council and the 
General  Assembly  resolutions  on  Cyprus.  Instead, 
I  invite  fellow  representatives  to  read  the  relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions,  in  particular  Security 
Council  resolutions  541  (1983)  and  550  (1984),  and 
to  make  up  their  own  minds  in  that  regard.  Through 
those  resolutions,  the  authoritative  organ  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  has 
spoken definitively and has condemned the purported 
secession of Cyprus.
I  hope  that  Turkey  will  provide  tangible  support 
in  the  process  of  finding  a  settlement  to  the  Cyprus 
problem. It can do that, first and foremost, by agreeing 
to  withdraw  its  guarantees  and  troops.  Mention  was 
made of the plan that was rejected in 2004. A significant 
portion of the Cypriot population rejected that specific 
plan  —  not  reunification  of  the  island  —  simply 
because  it  was  imposed  on  the  Cypriots  and  would 
have  essentially  rendered  Cyprus  a  vassal  State 
through provisions that are manifestly contradictory to 
the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Indeed,  the  occupied  areas  of  Cyprus  are  a 
part  of  the  European  Union  (EU),  but  the  EU  acquis 
remains  suspended  in  those  areas  until  reunification 
occurs. That, of course, is not the fault of anyone but 
the occupying Power.
Mr.  Al-Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I exercise my right of reply to the right of reply 
exercised  by  my  colleague  the  representative  of  the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
I would like to very briefly address him by saying 
that  we  were  discussing  objective  matters  related  to 
the  current  method  of  work  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation (OIC). As for the statement of the 
Saudi  representative,  it  regrettably  contains  false  and 
unfounded allegations that reflect the unbalanced and 
unwise position taken by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
vis-à-vis the crisis in Syria.
When we speak of supporting terrorism, I hope that 
my Saudi colleague will recall the facts and evidence. 
We  were  not  the  ones,  as  he  knows,  who  established 
Al-Qaida  and  the  Taliban.  He  knows  where  Da’esh, 
Jabhat Al-Nusra and Hayat Tahriri Al-Sham are getting 
not  only  their  money  and  weapons  but  also  their 
ideological  distortions  of  our  true  religion  of  Islam. 
We call upon him and the OIC to conduct a wise and 
transparent review of the OIC’s actions in order to return 
it to the right path. We call upon him to do so because 
the Middle East region which brings us together is in 
danger today. We call upon the OIC to undertake such 
a review and to reconsider its decisions in view of the 
tension in that region. The OIC knows that creating new 
conflicts, disputes and a state of false animosity against 
a  country  or  countries  will  not  benefit  the  region.  It 
knows  the  countries  I  am  referring  to  in  the  Middle 
East region, which are original members of the OIC.
Mr. Grigoryan (Armenia): I am compelled to take 
the floor to respond to the usual round of fabrications 
voiced  by 
the  representative  of  Azerbaijan.  The 
Azerbaijani delegation is once again, in typical fashion, 
28/29 
18-43660
13/12/2018 
A/73/PV.52
portraying  reality  upside  down.  The  representative  of 
Azerbaijan  has  failed  to  mention  the  principle  of  the 
equal rights and self-determination of peoples, which, 
along  with  other  principles,  constitute  the  essence  of 
the  proposal  submitted  by  the  co-Chair  mediators, 
which Azerbaijan continuously disregards.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  remind  my  colleague  that 
the approach of the international community vis-à-vis 
the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict  is  well  reflected  in 
the  statement  and  proposals  of  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  Minsk  Group 
co-Chairs.
Mr. Musayev (Azerbaijan): The misinterpretations 
that we have just witnessed in the comments made by the 
representative of Armenia are particularly astonishing 
as  they  are  being  made  at  the  United  Nations, 
whose  Security  Council  adopted  four  resolutions 
condemning  the  use  of  force  against  Azerbaijan  and 
the  bombardment  and  occupation  of  its  territories,  in 
addition to reaffirming respect for the sovereignty and 
territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan,  the  inviolability  of 
international borders and the inadmissibility of the use 
of force in the acquisition of territory.
Furthermore,  in  response  to  Armenia’s  territorial 
claims  and  forcible  actions,  the  Council  reaffirmed 
that  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  is  an  integral  part 
of Azerbaijan and demanded the immediate, complete 
and unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces 
from  all  of  the  occupied  territories  of  my  country. 
In  other  words,  through  its  resolutions,  the  Council 
acknowledged that is a fact that acts of military force 
were  committed  against  Azerbaijan,  that  such  acts 
are unlawful and incompatible with the prohibition of 
the  use  of  armed  force  in  international  relations  and 
run  counter  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its purposes, and that such acts constitute an obvious 
violation  of  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
of Azerbaijan.
The actions that Armenia describes as the exercise of 
the right to self-determination have been unequivocally 
qualified by the Security Council and other authoritative 
international  organizations  as  the  unlawful  use  of 
force  and  the  commission  of  other  serious  crimes. 
Armenia’s annexationist and colonialist policy has no 
chance  of  succeeding.  The  Nagorno  Karabakh  region 
has always been and will remain an inseparable part of 
Azerbaijan.  The  military  occupation  of  the  territories 
of Azerbaijan is temporary and will never produce the 
political  outcome  desired  by  Armenia.  Yerevan  must 
stop  its  futile  attempts  to  mislead  its  own  people  and 
the  international  community,  engage  constructively 
in the conflict-settlement process and comply with its 
international obligations.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 128?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 
members regarding an extension of the work of the Fifth 
Committee. Members will recall that at its 3rd plenary 
meeting,  on  21  September,  the  General  Assembly 
decided  that  the  Fifth  Committee  would  complete  its 
work by Friday, 14 December.
However,  I  have  been  informed  by  the  Chair  of 
the  Fifth  Committee  that  the  Committee  requests  an 
extension of its work to Friday, 21 December, in view of 
the expectation that such an extension would facilitate 
reaching  consensus  on  the  pending  draft  resolutions 
before the Committee.
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees to extend the work of the Fifth Committee until 
Friday, 21 December?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
18-43660
29/29
