United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
41st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 28 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(h) Appointment of the judges of the 
United Nations Dispute Tribunal
Memorandum of the Secretary-General 
(A/73/422 and A/73/422/Corr.1)
Report of the Internal Justice Council (A/73/203 
and A/73/203/Corr.1)
The Acting President:  As  indicated  in  document 
A/73/422,  the  terms  of  office  of  one  full-time  judge 
of  the  Dispute  Tribunal  based  in  New  York,  Judge 
Memooda  Ebrahim-Carstens  and  one  half-time  judge 
of the Dispute Tribunal, Judge Goolam Hoosen Kader 
Meeran, are due to expire on 30 June 2019. It is therefore 
necessary for the General Assembly, during its current 
session, to appoint a full-time judge based in New York 
and a half-time judge to the Dispute Tribunal, to fill the 
resulting vacancies. In accordance with paragraph 4 of 
article  4  of  the  statute  of  the  United  Nations  Dispute 
Tribunal, the term of office of the full-time judge and 
the half-time judge will be seven years. 
In  its  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/73/203), 
the  Internal  Justice  Council  has  recommended  to  the 
Assembly  for  its  consideration  two  candidates  for  the 
full-time vacancy in New York and two candidates for 
the  half-time  vacancy.  Also  in  its  report,  the  Council 
has  provided  the  names,  by  position,  location  and 
Tribunal, of candidates it considers suitable for election 
to the Dispute Tribunal. The candidates recommended 
by the Council for appointment as a full-time judge in 
New  York  are  Joëlle  Adda  (France)  and  Ole  Jan  van 
Leeuwen (Netherlands). The candidates recommended 
by the Council for appointment as a half-time judge are 
Angela Henke (Germany) and Francesco Buffa (Italy).
judge  and 
the  half-time  judge  of  the  United  Nations  Dispute 
Tribunal  will  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  statute 
of  the  Dispute  Tribunal  and  the  rules  of  procedure  of 
the  General  Assembly.  Article  4  of  the  statute  of  the 
Dispute Tribunal states that 
The  appointment  of 
the  full-time 
“[t]he  Dispute  Tribunal  shall  be  composed  of 
three  full-time  judges  and  two  half-time  judges... 
The  judges  shall  be  appointed  by  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Internal 
Justice  Council  in  accordance  with  Assembly 
resolution  62/228.  No  two  judges  shall  be  of  the 
same  nationality.  Due  regard  shall  be  given  to 
geographical distribution and gender balance.”
Paragraph 3 of article 4 of the statute of the Dispute 
Tribunal  requires  that,  in  order  to  be  eligible  for 
appointment, a person shall be of high moral character 
and  impartial;  possess  at  least  10  years  of  judicial 
experience  in  the  field  of  administrative  law  or  the 
equivalent  within  one  or  more  national  jurisdictions; 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-40177 (E)
*1840177*

A/73/PV.41 
28/11/2018
and be fluent, both orally and in writing, in English or 
French.
Paragraph 4 of article 4 of the statute of the Dispute 
Tribunal provides that 
“[a] judge of the Dispute Tribunal shall be appointed 
for  one  non-renewable  term  of  seven  years...  A 
current  or  former  judge  of  the  United  Nations 
Appeals  Tribunal  shall  not  be  eligible  to  serve  in 
the Dispute Tribunal.”
In  document  A/73/422,  it  is  proposed  that  the 
General  Assembly  proceed  to  appoint  the  judges 
through  an  election,  bearing  in  mind  paragraph  58 
of  resolution  63/253,  in  which  the  Assembly  invited 
Member  States,  when  electing  judges  to  the  United 
Nations Dispute Tribunal, to take due consideration of 
geographical distribution and gender balance.
Only 
those  candidates  recommended  by 
the 
Internal  Justice  Council  are  eligible  for  election.  The 
electors  in  the  General  Assembly  will  indicate  the 
candidates for whom they wish to vote by marking each 
name with a cross on the ballot papers.  Electors may 
vote for not more than one candidate for the full-time 
appointment  in  New  York  and  one  candidate  for  the 
half-time appointment to the Dispute Tribunal.
Those candidates who obtain the highest number of 
votes and a majority of votes in the General Assembly 
of the members present and voting will be considered 
as  elected  and  thereby  appointed  by  the  Assembly 
to  the  Dispute  Tribunal.  Balloting  shall  continue  in 
accordance with the rules of procedure until as many 
candidates  as  are  required  for  the  full-time  and  half-
time  seats  on  the  Dispute  Tribunal  to  be  filled  have 
obtained, in one or more ballots, a majority of votes of 
the members present and voting.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to  these 
procedures?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will now proceed to the election of one full-time judge 
in  New  York  and  one  half-time  judge  to  the  United 
Nations Dispute Tribunal, using the voting procedures 
just outlined. 
The  election  will  be  held  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Therefore,  in  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, the election shall be held by secret ballot. 
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the delegate seated directly 
behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mrs. Petkovic 
(Croatia),  Ms.  Bailey  (Jamaica),  Mr.  Omurzakov 
(Kyrgyzstan),  Mr.  Bhattarai  (Nepal),  Ms.  Eymann 
(Switzerland)  and  Mr.  Fintakpa  Lamega  (Togo) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.30  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.05 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Full-time judge (New York):
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required majority:  
Number of individual votes obtained: 
173
0
173
8
165
83
Ms. Joëlle Adda (France)  
88
Mr. Ole Jan van Leeuwen (Netherlands)   77
Half-time judge:
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required majority:  
Number of individual votes obtained:
Mr. Francesco Buffa (Italy)  
Ms. Angela Henke (Germany)  
173
0
173
3
170
86
88
82
Having obtained the required majority of votes of 
the  members  present  and  voting  and  the  highest 
number  of  votes,  Ms.  Joëlle  Adda  (France)  was 
elected  a  full-time  judge  of  the  United  Nations 
2/5 
18-40177
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.41
Dispute Tribunal in New York and Mr. Francesco 
Buffa  (Italy)  was  elected  a  half-time  judge  of  the 
United  Nations  Dispute  Tribunal,  for  terms  of 
office  beginning  on  1  July  2019  and  ending  on 
30 June 2026.
The  Acting  President:  I  take  this  opportunity 
to  extend 
the 
congratulations of the Assembly and to thank the tellers 
for their assistance in this election. 
those  who  have  been  elected 
to 
The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage 
of its consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 117.
(i) Appointment of the judges of the United Nations 
Appeals Tribunal
Memorandum of the Secretary-General 
(A/73/422 and A/73/422/Corr.1)
Report of the Internal Justice Council 
(A/73/203 and A/73/203/Corr.1)
The  President:  As 
indicated 
in  document 
A/73/422, one judicial position on the Appeals Tribunal 
is presently vacant following the resignation of Judge 
Rosalyn M. Chapman, effective 3 November 2017. The 
unexpired  remainder  of  Judge  Chapman’s  seven-year 
term ends on 30 June 2019. Accordingly, there is a need 
to appoint a judge to fill that vacancy. 
In connection with the vacancy, the Internal Justice 
Council, in paragraph 32 of its report, recommends that 
the Assembly appoint a judge to fill the vacancy created 
by the expiration of Judge Chapman’s term for the full 
period of a seven-year term, beginning on 1 July 2019. 
Also, as indicated in the same document, the terms of 
office  of  Judge  Richard  Lussick  and  Judge  Deborah 
Thomas-Felix are due to expire on 30 June 2019. It is 
therefore  necessary  for  the  General  Assembly,  during 
its current session, to appoint two judges to the Appeals 
Tribunal for a term of office of seven years, beginning 
on 1 July 2019.
As  also  indicated  in  documents  A/73/422  and 
A/73/422/Corr.1,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  2  of 
article 3 of the statute of the Appeals Tribunal, the 
“judges shall be appointed by the General Assembly 
on  the  recommendation  of  the  Internal  Justice 
Council  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly 
resolution  62/228.  No  two  judges  shall  be  of  the 
same  nationality.  Due  regard  shall  be  given  to 
geographical distribution and gender balance.”
The  candidates  recommended  by  the  Council 
for  appointment  to  the  Appeals  Tribunal  are  Graeme 
Colgan (New Zealand), Gary Donahoe (United States of 
America), Cécile Isidoro (France), Jean-François Neven 
(Belgium) and Kanwaldeep Sandhu (Canada). In order 
to be eligible for appointment, paragraph 3 of article 3 
of  the  statute  of  the  Appeals  Tribunal  requires  that  a 
person be of high moral character and impartial; possess 
at least 15 years of aggregate judicial experience in the 
field  of  administrative  law,  employment  law  or  the 
equivalent  within  one  or  more  national  jurisdictions; 
and be fluent, both orally and in writing, in at least one 
of the working languages of the Appeals Tribunal.
In  document  A/73/422,  it  is  proposed  that  the 
General  Assembly  proceed  to  appoint  the  judges  of 
the Appeals Tribunal by way of an election, bearing in 
mind  paragraph  58  of  resolution  63/253,  in  which  the 
Assembly invited Member States, when electing judges 
to  the  United  Nations  Appeals  Tribunal,  to  take  due 
consideration  of  geographical  distribution  and  gender 
balance.
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  the 
General Assembly agrees to the proposal?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The candidates who obtain 
the highest number of votes and a majority of the votes 
of those present and voting, shall be considered elected 
and thereby appointed by the Assembly to the Appeals 
Tribunal. Also, balloting shall continue, in accordance 
with  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly, 
until as many candidates as are required for the seats 
on the Appeals Tribunal to be filled have obtained, in 
one or more ballots, a majority of votes of the members 
present and voting. Also, consistent with past practice, 
in  case,  due  to  a  tied  vote,  it  becomes  necessary  to 
determine  the  candidate  to  be  elected  or  that  will 
proceed to the next round of restricted balloting, there 
will  be  a  special  restricted  ballot  limited  to  those 
candidates that have obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now proceed to the election of the three judges of the 
United Nations Appeals Tribunal. 
18-40177
3/5
A/73/PV.41 
28/11/2018
Only those candidates whose names appear on the 
ballot papers are eligible for election. Representatives 
are requested to indicate the candidate for whom they 
wish to vote by marking that candidate’s name with a 
cross on the ballot paper. Each representative may vote 
for  not  more  than  three  candidates  for  appointment 
to  the  Appeals  Tribunal.  The  election  will  be  held  in 
accordance with the relevant rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly. Therefore, in accordance with rule 
92 of the rules of procedure, the election shall be held 
by secret ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the delegate seated directly 
behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mrs. Petkovic 
(Croatia),  Ms.  Bailey  (Jamaica),  Mr.  Omurzakov 
(Kyrgyzstan),  Mr.  Bhattarai  (Nepal),  Ms.  Eymann 
(Switzerland)  and  Mr.  Fintakpa  Lamega  (Togo) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.25  a.m.  and 
resumed at 12.05 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required majority:  
Number of individual votes obtained:
175
0
175
3
172
87
107
Mr. Jean-François Neven (Belgium)  
105
Mr. Graeme Colgan (New Zealand)  
102
Mr. Kanwaldeep Sandhu (Canada)  
Ms. Cécile Isidoro (France)  
101
Gary Donahoe (United States of America)  85
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  of  votes 
of  members  present  and  voting  and  the  largest 
number  of  votes,  Mr.  Jean-François  Neven 
(Belgium), Mr. Graeme Colgan (New Zealand) and 
Mr.  Kanwaldeep  Sandhu  (Canada)  were  elected 
judges of the United Nations Appeals Tribunal for a 
term of office beginning on 1 July 2019 and ending 
on 30 June 2026.
The  Acting  President:  I  take  this  opportunity 
to  extend 
the 
congratulations of the Assembly and to thank the tellers 
for their assistance in this election. 
those  who  have  been  elected 
to 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (i) 
of agenda item 117?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The Acting President: In reference to a letter of the 
President of the General Assembly dated 23 November 
2018, I would like to draw the attention of members to 
the date of recess of the current session. Members will 
recall that at its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September, 
the  General  Assembly  decided  that  the  seventy-
third  session  would  recess  on  Monday,  17  December. 
However,  in  view  of  the  work  that  remains  to  be 
completed for this part of the session, I would like to 
propose  to  the  Assembly  that  it  postpone  the  date  of 
recess to Friday, 21 December. 
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  agrees  to  postpone  the  date  of  recess  to 
Friday, 21 December?
It was so decided (decision 73/502).
The Acting President: In reference to a letter of the 
President dated 27 November 2018, I should also like 
to  consult  members  regarding  the  draft  oral  decision 
concerning an award ceremony for the United Nations 
Prize in the Field of Human Rights.
May I take it that the General Assembly, guided by 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme 
of Action adopted at the World Conference on Human 
Rights  on  25  June  1993;  recalling  its  resolution  2217 
(XXI) of 19 December 1966 on the International Year 
for  Human  Rights,  specifically  its  recommendation 
C  that  a  prize  or  prizes  should  be  awarded,  for  the 
first  time,  on  10  December  1968,  on  the  occasion  of 
the  celebration  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  that 
4/5 
18-40177
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.41
thereafter prizes should not be awarded more often than 
at five-year intervals; recognizing that 2018 marks the 
seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the twenty-fifth anniversary of the 
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and the 
establishment of the Office of the High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights;  first,  decides  to  hold  the  award 
ceremony for the United Nations Prize in the Field of 
Human  Rights  at  the  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  18  December  2018,  immediately  after 
the  commemorative  meeting  on  the  occasion  of  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  of  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary 
of  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action; 
and,  secondly,  decides  that  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  will  address  the 
plenary meeting?
The Acting President: I should also like to consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  of  the  work  of  the 
Second  Committee.  Members  will  recall  that  at  its 
3rd  plenary  meeting,  on  21  September,  the  General 
Assembly approved the recommendation of the General 
Committee that the Second Committee would complete 
its work by Thursday, 29 November. However, I have 
been informed by the Chair of the Second Committee 
that the Committee requests an extension of its work to 
Wednesday, 5 December, in view that such an extension 
would  facilitate  reaching  consensus  on  the  pending 
resolutions before it.
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
until Wednesday, 5 December?
The  draft  oral  decision  was  adopted
(decision 73/509).
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.
18-40177
5/5
