United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
9th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 September 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.9
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Address by Mr. Jorge Carlos De Almeida Fonseca, 
President of the Republic of Cabo Verde
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Cabo Verde.
Mr.  Jorge  Carlos  De  Almeida  Fonseca,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Cabo  Verde,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Jorge Carlos De Almeida Fonseca, 
President of the Republic of Cabo Verde, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Fonseca (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  like  to 
congratulate you, Madam President, on your election, 
and wish you great success as you embark on your noble 
and  challenging  mission.  I  also  wish  to  congratulate 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, of the Republic of Slovakia, the 
outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  for  his 
excellent work during his term.
Next, I would like to express my utmost appreciation 
to the Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, for his 
smart and competent stewardship of our common house, 
and to reaffirm our full trust and profound respect for his 
leadership, particularly amid the many difficulties that 
the world currently faces. I am referring, for example, 
to terrorism, which is spreading in many countries; the 
migration crisis, particularly on the African continent, 
from where we get news, virtually every day, of young 
people, children and women who have abandoned their 
homes out of desperation and ventured into the world in 
search of a better life only to face subhuman conditions; 
the  impact  of  climate  change  on  human  security; 
conflicts and other threats to peace coming to us from 
all  quarters  of  the  world;  and  the  glaring  situation  of 
poverty,  which  continues  to  be  a  reality  that  puts  our 
global capacity to leave no one behind to the test.
In order to mitigate those and other problems that 
all of us present here in this Assembly face, the United 
Nations  has  worked  tirelessly  under  the  leadership  of 
our Secretary-General, to whom I would like to express, 
once  again,  our  profound  gratitude.  To  address  those 
problems, the President of the General Assembly could 
not  have  proposed  a  more  appropriate  theme  for  her 
presidency  than  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant 
to  all  people”,  while  also  promoting  multilateralism, 
which I define here as combining efforts and taking a 
path to global leadership and shared responsibilities in 
order  to  build  the  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable 
societies that we all desire.
We will celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10 December. 
However,  hate,  discrimination  and  violence  are  still 
alive and present. As the Director-General of UNESCO 
has stated:
“Hundreds  of  millions  of  women  and  men  are 
destitute,  deprived  of  basic 
livelihoods  and 
opportunities.  Forced  population  movements  are 
violating rights on an unprecedented scale. The 2030 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-29877 (E)
*1829877*
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  promises  to 
leave no one behind — human rights must be the 
bedrock for all progress moving forward.”
The  date  of  10  December,  Human  Rights  Day, 
is  strategically  important  in  that  human  rights  have 
established a universal standard for society to achieve, 
one that is globally inclusive and socially emancipating, 
enabling all human beings to realize their free and full 
development.  The  fact  that  universal  standards  and 
principles  of  human  rights  are  integral  to  the  legal 
order  of  many  countries  is  a  major  advancement  for 
humankind.  However,  that  does  not  mean  that  such 
standards  and  principles  are  fully  and  effectively 
accepted. In fact, human rights achievements translate 
into a framework of rights that combine with cultural or 
historical conditions to weave a non-linear history that 
is  at  times  contradictory  but  always  open  and  never-
ending.
Respect  for  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  therefore  constitutes  an  unquestionably  noble 
goal and, at the same time, remains one of the greatest 
challenges  of  our  time.  Although  the  struggle  for  its 
effectiveness is intensifying, violations have virtually 
been institutionalized in many parts of the world. Such 
violations have also been observed in situations of war, 
which unfortunately afflicts many parts of the world, 
especially  Africa,  taking  on  unacceptable  dimensions 
through increasingly common practices such as human 
trafficking,  including  the  trafficking  of  children, 
organized  transnational  crime  and  acts  of  genocide 
and  other  war  crimes.  Despite  those  unfavourable 
conditions,  we  raise  the  banner  of  hope  and  fight  to 
defend and promote fundamental human rights, driven, 
above  all,  by  our  faith  in  the  capacity  of  humankind 
to creatively mould reality to our will, notwithstanding 
causalities and constraints.
Our country’s choice to pursue a policy of peace, 
dialogue  and  understanding  to  prevent  and  resolve 
conflicts  acknowledges  and  reflects  those  values. 
Furthermore,  it  emanates  from  the  very  nature  of  the 
Cabo Verdean people — from the culture of tolerance 
that has allowed our policies to be shaped by such values 
and principles over four decades of history as a sovereign 
nation. In our day-to-day lives, we have demonstrated 
that tolerance is possible and that the sharing of values 
is a reality, even in the face of adversity.
We profoundly regret to see that the death penalty 
still  exists  in  many  countries  around  the  world.  The 
existence  of  the  death  penalty  in  the  twenty-first 
century  demands  profound,  careful  and  responsible 
reflection  from  all  of  us.  It  is  a  fact  that  the  search 
for a new universal conscience will lead us to rethink 
our  understanding  of  the  purposes  and  motivations 
behind human coexistence, but they should always be 
based on respect for life and the immanent dignity of 
human beings.
The Constitution and justice system of Cabo Verde 
do not provide for life sentences or the death penalty. 
In fact, the death penalty has not been applied in our 
country since before the last quarter of the nineteenth 
century.  Our  unique  historical  and  social  condition 
has  instilled  in  us  cultural  principles  and  values  that 
promote  the  right  to  life  under  all  circumstances.  In 
that  regard,  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  absolute  support 
for the recent appeal by Pope Francis to the conscience 
of  State  authorities  around  the  world  to  seek  an 
international  consensus  on  the  abolition  of  the  death 
penalty. In addition to calling for the unequivocal, firm 
and exemplary repudiation of capital punishment, Pope 
Francis  also  spoke  against  the  so-called  extrajudicial 
executions, or illegal killings that are being committed.
In the name of clemency and prudence, we firmly 
believe that capital punishment is not an appropriate and 
fair instrument, nor is it efficient in achieving justice, 
in  the  light  of  its  insurmountable  conditionalities  and 
weaknesses. As a superior value, life cannot be left at 
the mercy of presumably fallible judges, who, unaware 
of the laws of clemency, imprudently insist on donning 
the  soiled  robe  of  the  executioner,  succumbing  to  the 
dim light cast by a law that, in terms of relative values, 
is  certainly  not  above  the  value  of  life  and  the  ethics 
that it embodies.
Moreover,  we  also  believe  that,  based  on  an 
unwavering and optimistic anthropology, human beings 
can be rehabilitated and that, in the modern world, there 
exist  institutional  conditions  and  less  grievous  forms 
of punishment that are still suitable and effective and 
which avoid the shameful radical solution of ending the 
life of a fellow human being. Viewing criminal justice 
in the context of the rule of law, capital punishment is 
therefore  unjustifiable.  It  is  along  those  lines  that  we 
fully  subscribe  to  the  plea  by  the  Holy  Father  Pope 
Francis for a universal moratorium on executions.
Through  the  43  years  of  its  independence,  Cabo 
Verde,  a  small  island  State  with  major  shortages  of 
resources, is proud to be a democratic country built on 
2/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
the rule of law through the sacrifice and determination 
of Cabo Verdeans residing in the country and abroad. 
I  believe  that  my  country  can  contribute,  even  if 
modestly, to the quest for solutions to major problems 
that  currently  afflict  our  troubled  world.  More  than  a 
model  of  the  political  stability  that  characterizes  our 
country or of the democratic regime that we have built 
and  consolidated,  the  nation  of  Cabo  Verde,  which 
predates the creation of the Cabo Verdean State, may 
be  considered  an  example  of  peaceful  coexistence 
among  people  from  different  countries  and  with 
different beliefs who have been blended into a unique 
and diverse culture that is open to the world and to the 
sharing of values.
international 
Without  any  pretence  or  false  modesty,  I  am  also 
proud  of  our  country’s  journey  from  independence 
to  the  present  day.  In  fact,  I  can  say  that,  according 
to  the  human,  economic  and  financial  indices,  our 
country’s achievements have been favourably received 
by  major 
institutions,  particularly 
those  in  the  financial  arena.  However,  with  our 
country’s  service-based  economy, 
its  very  small 
market  and  an  agricultural  sector  that  is  struggling 
against  desertification  and  scarce  rainfall,  we  cannot 
ignore  our  significant  vulnerabilities,  and  we  note 
that  we  must  not  rest  because  we  have  graduated  to 
middle-income-country status. Indeed, we believe that 
we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  our  economy 
continues  to  be  very  dependent  and  that  it  cannot 
absorb a large number of our workers, with all the social 
effects  that  that  entails,  which  is  why  we  continue  to 
rely on international solidarity. Naturally, we must also 
increase  our  reliance  on  domestic  resources,  develop 
through public-private partnerships and become more 
effective in fighting extreme poverty, social exclusion 
and unemployment, particularly among young people, 
thereby  promoting  growth  and  development 
in 
Cabo Verde.
Our constraints with respect to energy, water, health 
and  sanitation,  to  name  just  a  few  areas,  will  require 
our continued attention, and we will need to build the 
necessary  infrastructure  to  create  the  conditions  for 
ensuring our economy’s sustainable growth. Similarly, 
as  we  look  to  our  future,  we  must  also  consider  the 
increasingly  disastrous  impacts  that  climate  change 
and  other  natural  disasters  are  having  on  the  world, 
particularly on small island developing States.
Cabo Verde graduated to a middle-income country 
in  2008,  when  the  world  was  gripped  by  a  major 
international  financial  crisis,  which  contributed  to 
our missing the window of opportunity created by our 
graduation.  Since  then,  the  structural  vulnerabilities 
afflicting our country have become not only aggravated 
but  also  more  complex.  We  see  this  situation  in  our 
growing regional asymmetries, which are exacerbated 
by  the  lack  of  territorial  continuity  that  goes  with 
being an island nation, the nefarious effects of drought, 
desertification  and  other  climate  changes,  as  well  as 
weak  production  capacity,  unemployment  of  young 
people,  social  and  gender  inequalities,  the  excessive 
burden  of  external  debt  on  the  budget,  and  the 
difficulties in internally connecting our country by air 
and sea, which hampers the creation of a competitive 
and coherent market, which is essential for developing 
tourism.  Such  facts  convince  us  of  the  relevance  of 
and  need  for  support  measures  that  are  distinct  and 
adjusted to the realities of our country in the areas of 
development, trade and foreign debt.
Finally,  we  call  for  more  substantial  inclusion  of 
and a greater voice for developing countries within the 
United Nations system, the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development and other institutions in 
line  with  the  work  that  is  already  being  pursued.  To 
that end, in December 2018, the Government of Cabo 
Verde will convene a round table in Paris to make an 
appeal for the mobilization of innovative partnerships 
that  are  consistent  with  our  reality  as  a  small  island 
developing  State.  Cabo  Verde  will  want  to  hear  what 
our  development  partners  think  of  the  relevance  of 
our  proposals  and  options,  and  to  discuss  forms  of 
cooperation with them, in close coordination with our 
agreed  national  efforts,  including  the  alignment  of 
our  national  development  plan  with  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. We therefore count on the support 
of  the  members  of  the  Assembly  on  Cabo  Verde’s 
journey towards the sustainable development for which 
we all strive.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Cabo  Verde  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Jorge Carlos De Almeida Fonseca, President 
of the Republic of Cabo Verde, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
18-29877
3/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
Address by King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom of Eswatini
into 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Head of State of the Kingdom of Eswatini.
King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Eswatini,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of the Kingdom 
of Eswatini, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
King  Mswati  III:  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to 
address  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third 
session, where we have come to renew our commitment 
to creating an enabling environment for all humankind.
The  theme  of  this  session,  “Making  the  United 
Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership 
and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies”,  has  great  resonance  with 
resolution 72/279, adopted on 31 May, which aims at the 
repositioning of the United Nations development system 
to better support countries in their achievement of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  under  strong 
national leadership and with international cooperation.
When the United Nations was established in 1945, 
its  main  purpose  was  to  reduce  tensions  and  avert 
another conflict following the Second World War. Since 
then,  we  have  converged  as  a  family  at  the  General 
Assembly to renew this commitment and analyse how 
we address challenges affecting the world. It is a time 
to assess whether we are still living up to the ethos of 
the founders, who sought to ensure that the world would 
never again endure another world war, but rather find 
peaceful solutions to resolving possible conflicts.
We are all aware of the pockets of tension existing 
in  different  regions  of  the  world,  which  require  that 
States Members of the United Nations speak with one 
voice when offering possible peaceful solutions. Since 
a fragmented approach would render peaceful solutions 
elusive  for  affected  countries,  it  is  imperative  that 
we  engage  and  resolve  issues  together  as  the  United 
Nations family in order to ensure that we end up with 
lasting solutions.
We  appeal  to  the  countries  experiencing  conflict 
situations  to  come  up  with  home-grown  solutions  to 
address  their  differences.  We  urge  these  nations  to 
avoid the use of force in an attempt to impose change. 
Where they do not see eye to eye, they need to adopt 
dialogue  as  the  best  way  to  find  lasting  solutions. 
Where there is no loss of blood, unity prevails, whereas 
violence begets instability.
Those who have lost lives and property in conflicts 
do not forget, and their bitterness makes nation-building 
efforts much harder to achieve. States Members of the 
United  Nations  are  strongly  urged  to  avoid  fuelling 
tensions in troubled countries with a divided approach 
to  intervention,  as  that  defeats  the  purpose  of  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  approach 
should always be, for the greater good of humankind, to 
search for and find an amicable way forward to address 
all the challenges we face.
Another  great  concern  is  the  imbalance  between 
rich  and  poor,  which  continues  to  deepen  by  the  day 
despite  our  efforts  to  implement  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  which  were  designed  to  bridge 
that  divide.  As  the  United  Nations  family,  we  need 
to  pay  serious  attention  to  those  imbalances,  as  they 
contribute to terrorism and social strife in the world.
The African Union has also set out to improve lives 
with the goal of realizing a well-developed Africa for 
all by 2063. It is important to support such programmes, 
which  are  similar  to  initiatives  undertaken  in  other 
regions of the world, some of which have shown great 
progress  in  that  regard.  We  urge  successful  blocs 
to  meaningfully  support  developing  countries  that 
have  adopted  good  programmes  to  transform  their 
economies but lack the means to do so. The slow process 
of  development  in  such  countries  adds  to  the  burden 
resulting  from  their  failure  to  provide  for  the  needs 
of  our  people  and  our  society.  We  need  to  find  ways 
and  solutions  to  speed  up  the  process  of  developing 
sustainable  economies  by  removing  the  stumbling 
blocks  to  development,  in  line  with  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
It is perhaps time that we engage researchers to find 
out what developing countries need in order to fast-track 
economic  growth  and  identify  high-turnover  capital 
projects that would be best suited to catalyse such an 
endeavour. No country deserves to go for a whole year 
without any investment. There are numerous successful 
countries  that  can  share  their  experiences  of  success. 
Their  insights  could  assist  developing  countries  in 
ensuring that no country is left behind as we strive to 
achieve our development objectives.
4/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
The  African  continent  remains  challenged  by 
various diseases, including Ebola, HIV/AIDS, malaria, 
tuberculosis  and  many  others,  each  of  which  requires 
large  amounts  of  funding  if  they  are  to  be  overcome. 
Africa  has  resolved  to  eliminate  those  diseases  in  a 
short amount of time. However, without funding, that 
will  remain  a  challenge.  Some  of  those  health  issues 
require further analysis given that, in some cases where 
we have had success, we subsequently had to deal with 
their re-emergence in a more virulent form.
It would be remiss of us not to thank and commend 
the  support  lent  by  members  of  the  United  Nations 
family to countries in need, especially for health issues 
in Africa. We need to ensure that every citizen has access 
to basic services, such as clean water, health care and 
free primary education. We commend those countries 
that  have  reached  the  level  of  being  able  to  provide 
free education. It is only by investing in education that 
nations may produce the highly qualified citizenry that 
enables them to realize their full development potential.
Reducing unemployment is a global challenge, so 
too is caring for the elderly, a group that has contributed 
immensely  to  the  development  of  each  country.  They 
deserve to be cared for once they have done their part. 
Addressing  those  issues  is  becoming  increasingly 
challenging given the decline in donor funding, which 
means  more  hardship  for  our  people.  We  should 
therefore  seek  alternative  means  of  fundraising  so  as 
to avoid the undesirable situation in which people have 
to  resort  to  self-help  in  order  to  cope  with  the  global 
challenges.  Such  an  approach  threatens  peace,  as  it 
could  lead  to  the  diversion  of  resources  from  efforts 
in  place  to  address  already  existing  challenges,  such 
as diseases.
It 
that 
is  unfortunate 
the  African  continent 
continues to attract more United Nations peacekeeping 
missions  than  any  other  region  in  the  world,  which 
qualifies  Africa  for  proper  representation  in  the 
peace  and  security  arena  and  makes  it  a  key  player 
in  discussions  on  issues  of  peace  and  security  in  all 
structures of the United Nations. We therefore make the 
appeal for Africa not to be left behind. Its voice must be 
heard and featured prominently and permanently at the 
United Nations.
As negotiations of reform of the Security Council 
progress,  the  Kingdom  of  Eswatini  calls  for  the 
favourable  consideration  of 
the  African  common 
position, as well as the support of those countries that 
are not members of the Security Council. Africa calls 
for the allocation of no less than two permanent seats 
on  the  Security  Council,  with  all  of  the  prerogatives 
and privileges of permanent membership — including 
the veto power — and five non-permanent seats.
impetus  needed 
the  proper  guidance  and 
We  remain  confident  that  the  SDGs and  Agenda 
2063  of  the  African  Union  will  continue  to  give 
us 
to 
eradicate poverty and create inclusive and sustainable 
development  for  all.  The  Kingdom  of  Eswatini  has 
made  significant  strides  in  adapting  the  SDGs  at 
the  local  level  and  integrating  them  into  its  national 
planning  processes.  We  have  finalized  a  review  of 
our 1997-2022 national development strategy and will 
soon be launching a revised national strategy with the 
theme “Development strategy for Eswatini: promoting 
sustainable  development  and  inclusive  growth”.  The 
strategy  is  expected  to  accelerate  the  implementation 
of the SDGs in the Kingdom.
In a bid to facilitate research and development, the
Kingdom  of  Eswatini  is  fully  committed  to  working 
towards  a  knowledge-based  economy  through  the 
development  of  science,  technology  and  innovation 
infrastructure.  The  Royal  Science  and  Technology 
Park  continues  to  be  a  key  entity  aimed  at  advancing 
research in the scientific and related fields. We would 
like to express our profound gratitude to the friends of 
the Kingdom who are supporting us in our endeavour 
to develop those fundamental initiatives. However, as 
innovation,  research  and  development  are  constantly 
evolving,  such  efforts  are  a  work  in  progress.  The 
Kingdom therefore continues to seek additional support 
so as to further strengthen initiatives that contribute to 
attaining our national Vision 2022 and the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Only a few days ago, the people of the Kingdom of 
Eswatini held a very peaceful national election that was 
free and fair. We are glad that international observers 
were in attendance to monitor the elections and that their 
conclusions were in line with our expectations. During 
the elections, the people nominated candidates in their 
chiefdoms to compete at the constituency level, using a 
system we call Tinkhundla. The system ensures direct 
participation  and  promotes  participatory  democracy 
among our people. It is home grown, part of our customs 
and traditions, and enshrined in our Constitution.
We  fully  support  the  participation  of  women  in 
political  decision-making  positions  and  have  recently 
18-29877
5/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
enacted the Election of Women Members to the House 
of Assembly Act in order to ensure their representation 
in  Parliament.  We  have  also  successfully  enacted  the 
Sexual  Offences  and  Domestic  Violence  Act,  a  legal 
framework  to  protect  women  from  domestic  violence 
and sexual assault. That legislation will give effect to 
the relevant international legal instruments, including, 
inter  alia,  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms of Discrimination against Women.
We  are  pleased  to  inform  the  General  Assembly 
that, earlier this year, our Kingdom celebrated 50 years 
of independence. We are grateful that the country has 
been able to champion its development agenda as a free 
nation for 50 years. During the celebration, the nation 
decided to revert to its original name, Eswatini. Since 
time immemorial, the name of the Kingdom has always 
been Eswatini.
I would like to emphasize that the call of the United 
Nations  to  leave  no  one  behind  requires  identifying 
them,  knowing  where  they  are  and  understanding 
how they live, as well as determining how they can be 
assisted and brought to par with the rest of the world. 
Answering those questions will go a long way towards 
making the United Nations more relevant to all peoples 
of the world.
We would like to draw the attention of the Assembly 
to  the  negative  impact  that  being  categorized  as  a 
middle-income country has had on our access to external 
resources. Our designation as a middle-income country 
has come at a time when we need even more resources 
to  be  able  to  inject  innovation  into  the  development 
programmes  that  we  have  undertaken  pursuant  to  the 
SDGs. We sincerely hope that the commendable reform 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  will  help  to  support 
and strengthen our efforts aimed at gaining access to 
external  resources  and  securing  sustainable  funding 
mechanisms so as to enable us to move towards fully 
realizing the SDGs by 2030.
Mr.  Barry  (Burkina  Faso),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The Kingdom of Eswatini reiterates its unwavering 
stance  as  it  calls  on  the  United  Nations  to  afford 
the  people  of  the Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  the 
opportunity to contribute to and partake in the United 
Nations  development  system.  Taiwan’s  experience  in 
fields that are vital to various dimensions of sustainable 
development would go a long way towards contributing 
to  the  work  and  well-being  of  the  membership  of  the 
United Nations. We wish to make a strong appeal for 
the people of Taiwan not to be left behind, with a view 
to keeping the United Nations relevant to all people, in 
line with the spirit of universality.
to 
the  President  of 
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  extend  my 
congratulations 
the  General 
Assembly on her election to preside at the seventy-third 
session  of  the  Assembly.  We  commend  the  General 
Assembly  for  having  such  confidence  in  her  as  to 
choose her to serve as only the fourth woman President 
of the General Assembly in its 73 years of existence. I 
would like to assure her of my Kingdom’s full support 
as  she  executes  her  duties  and  responsibilities  during 
her term of office. We further appreciate the Secretary-
General  and  all  his  staff  for  their  continued  support 
and  hard  work  to  improve  the  working  mechanisms 
and  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  system  for  all 
Member  States.  We  hope  to  come  out  of  this  session 
with meaningful goals that will chart a better future for 
our respective countries.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of 
State of the Kingdom of Eswatini for the statement he 
has just made.
King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Eswatini,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President 
of Ukraine
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Ukraine.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Petro 
Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Poroshenko:  On  behalf  of  Ukraine,  I 
congratulate  the  President  on  her  election  to  preside 
over the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. 
We support the outlined priorities and are ready to do 
our part in translating them into reality.
Our  deliberations  are  taking  place  at  a  defining 
moment for the United Nations. Despite the universal 
6/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
appeal  for  peace  and  a  declared  commitment  to 
upholding it, wars and armed conflicts remain our reality. 
Conflicts are the main reason for the increase in number 
of refugees and displaced persons worldwide — to the 
unprecedented  figure  of  65.5  million.  Since  no  peace 
means  no  development,  hundreds  of  millions  are 
doomed to misery.
The  international  security  environment  seemed 
rock  solid  less  than  two  decades  ago.  It  has  now 
descended  into  a  volatile  and  increasingly  disturbing 
state of affairs, where both traditional and hybrid threats 
challenge the stability of our societies. Too often, lofty 
rhetoric  on  peace,  respect  for  international  law  and 
commitment  to  human  rights  remains  precisely  that: 
rhetoric — nice sounding words and politically correct 
messages that are not backed by concrete action.
We may be tempted to talk about achievements or 
grand  plans  for  the  future,  yet,  from  our  perspective, 
it is much more important to address the fundamental 
problems  faced  by 
the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  We  will  never 
forget  that  the  raison  d’être  of  the  Organization  is  to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war.
the  United  Nations  and 
Unfortunately,  my  fellow  citizens  have  become 
part  of  that  one  fifth of  the  world  population  that 
is  experiencing  the  horrors  of  war.  As  I  deliver  my 
address, reports have brought the sad news of another 
human life lost on the front lines of a war that has been 
inflicted on my country by a permanent member of the 
Security Council. Yesterday and the day before, several 
families were again struck by grief as their loved ones 
perished as a result of Russia’s hostile attacks. Moscow 
turns Ukrainians into orphans, it tortures our patriots 
in  its  prisons,  and  more  than  1.5  million  people  have 
become  internally  displaced  persons  who  still  cannot 
return to their homes.
Russia  continues  to  multiply  the  human  tragedy, 
which recently took on a new dimension: ecological. It 
is poisoning Ukrainian soil and causing environmental 
disasters,  not  only  in  occupied  Crimea  but  also  in 
the  Donbas  region.  That  has  been  a  daily  reality  for 
Ukrainians  for  four  years  now:  thousands  of  deaths, 
destruction,  displacement  and  human  suffering.  For 
my fellow citizens, those years have been a tremendous 
challenge and a test of their determination, solidarity, 
resilience and faith.
Let  us  not  forget  what  this  war  is  about.  Ukraine 
made a sovereign decision to live on its own terms and 
promote a freer world based on democratic values and 
rules.  Russia  is  punishing  Ukraine  for  that  decision. 
It  kills,  destroys  homes,  and  tells  lies  on  a  massive 
scale. It claims that Ukraine and Georgia have attacked 
themselves.  Do  we  know  which  one  of  Russia’s 
neighbours  will  be  the  next  to  attack  itself,  or  will 
countries around the world be comfortably numb in the 
hope that they will not be next?
As  we  defend  Ukraine’s  land  and  our  freedom  of 
choice, and as we counter the resurgent neo-imperialist 
Power that is willing to divide the world anew, we are 
also  defending  the  free  world.  The  United  Nations 
should not remain silent while the values and principles 
rooted  in  its  Charter,  as  well  as  the  entire  body  of 
international law, are being violated by a country with 
the veto power. This is not just a challenge, but a chance 
to make the United Nations relevant and the motto of 
this session of the General Assembly work.
How  did  such  a  deterioration  in  world  affairs 
come about? Many assume that respect for peace and 
international  law  is  a  constant  given.  Developments 
on  the  international  stage  over  the  past  decade  have 
seriously  undermined  such  confidence.  Appeasement 
and  quick  fixes  to  difficult  problems  have  proved 
to  be  false  options.  It  has  been  proved  that  staying 
comfortably  silent  when 
international  norms  are 
breached  does  nothing  but  encourage  the  offender  to 
continue its destructive policies. The world’s silence is 
exactly what the Kremlin weaponizes against Ukraine 
and, ultimately, against all of us.
It is naive to believe that safe shores will always be 
found. There will be no safe shores if we allow someone 
to feel that he or she will not be bound by any norms 
or restrictions, that he or she has a right to reshape the 
international  system  to  his  or  her  liking,  or  that  his 
or  her  interests  are  more  legitimate  than  ours.  In  the 
absence of a strong and united reaction, an extremely 
irresponsible  and  selfish  actor  resorts  to  the  tactic  of 
further escalation, which creates new crises, raises the 
stakes, and blackmails other countries and even entire 
international  organizations  —  all  in  an  effort  to  get 
away with murder. We shall not allow this to happen. 
We will put the world back on track.
What  is  the  cure?  In  a  word,  it  is  responsibility. 
The  ability  of  the  international  community  to  ensure 
systemic and unerring responsibility for each and every 
violation  of  international  law  —  including,  first  and 
foremost,  the  norms  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
18-29877
7/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
the United Nations — is the benchmark measuring how 
successful we as a family of nations can be in achieving 
our  shared  goals.  Ensuring  responsibility  is  never  an 
easy feat. Let me be absolutely clear on the following 
point:  nothing  will  stop  Moscow  from  continuing  its 
aggressive,  expansionist  policies  if  it  does  not  face 
a  united  stand  by  the  international  community  and 
punishment for its actions does not become inevitable. 
It  is  due  to  the  lack  of  relevant  punishment  that  after 
Georgia  came  Ukraine,  after  Litvinenko  came  the 
Skripals and after Aleppo came Idlib.
The Kremlin has no intention of stopping. Following 
the  occupation  of  Crimea,  it  now  aims  to  occupy  the 
Sea  of  Azov,  situated  between  Ukraine  and  Russia, 
and,  having  illegally  constructed  a  bridge  across  the 
Kerch Strait, Russia launched its systematic disruption 
of  Ukrainian  and  foreign  ships  and  the  freedom  of 
international navigation through the Strait. Such brutal 
actions  must  be  rejected  as  illegal,  including  under 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
They require a strong response, including an enhanced 
sanctions policy and other targeted measures.
The  efficiency  of  international  actions  often  falls 
short of expectations, and the relevance of the United 
Nations  itself  is  called  into  question.  We  must  admit 
that  the  responsibility  for  resolving  the  current  state 
of  affairs  rests  on  all  of  us,  both  collectively  and 
individually. If we are committed to building peaceful, 
equitable and sustainable societies, we must protect the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  uphold  its  norms  and 
principles and take resolute action to restore justice.
Let me put it more precisely: the beautiful language 
of  the  Charter  is  worth  nothing  if  it  is  not  enforced. 
No  more  words  are  needed;  it  is  the  time  for  deeds. 
The United Nations must gain momentum, as there are 
continued attempts to ruin the rules-based international 
order  and  forcefully  revise  internationally  recognized 
State  borders.  That  dangerous  slide  towards  a  world 
with no civilized rules must be stopped. In that regard, 
there is a need to revitalize and strengthen the role of 
the General Assembly in the area of international peace 
and security.
With  conflicts  spreading,  we  must  ensure  the 
maximum  flexibility  and  comprehensiveness  when  it 
comes  to  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  which 
is the only inclusive and the chief policymaking forum. 
That  is  why  Ukraine  introduced  to  the  agenda  of  the 
current session of the General Assembly the item entitled 
“The  situation  in  the  temporarily  occupied  territories 
of  Ukraine”.  Member  States  should  be  provided  with 
every  possibility  for  in-depth  considerations  of  all 
urgent  situations  that  require  the  attention  of  the 
international community. As outlined by the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  we  have  to  facilitate  quick 
and effective responses to emergency situations by the 
General Assembly. As one of the Vice-Presidents of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session, Ukraine 
stands ready to contribute to that.
As  Member  States,  we  conferred  on  the  Security 
Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  What  should  we 
do  if  a  veto-holding  member  of  the  Security  Council 
uses  that  right  to  veto  in  order  to  help  itself  escape 
from  responsibility,  rather  than  to  help  international 
peace and stability? It is time to say that the abuse of 
the right to veto is a constraint that often prevents our 
Organization from acting. We believe that progress on 
the reform of the Security Council will be an important 
contribution  to  the  ongoing  broader  change  at  the 
United Nations. We support launching text-based talks 
within intergovernmental negotiations and are ready to 
engage constructively in that process.
We  also  expect  that  the  ongoing  reform  of  the 
peace and security pillar, which was envisaged by the 
Secretary-General  with  the  support  of  the  General 
Assembly,  will  contribute  to  the  speed  and  ability 
of  the  Organization  to  react  to  the  emerging  threats 
to  international  peace  and  security.  Ukraine  fully 
shares  the  approach  of  the  Secretary-General  to  the 
peacekeeping  activity  of 
the  Organization  under 
his  Action  for  Peacekeeping  concept.  It  is  a  timely 
opportunity for Member States and the United Nations 
leadership  to  consider  measures  leading  to  effective 
and  real  changes  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping. 
That is the same peacekeeping that Ukraine has been 
asking  the  United  Nations  to  deploy  to  its  territory 
since April 2015, when I addressed my request, with the 
support of the Parliament of Ukraine, to the President 
of  the  Security  Council,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Secretary-General.
After 
the  failure  of 
the  United  Nations 
in 
preventing aggression against Ukraine, we still hoped 
that the Organization would help to settle the conflict 
by deploying a United Nations-mandated multinational 
peacekeeping force to the occupied Donbas region. We 
hoped for a mission with a strong mandate and broad 
responsibilities to help bring peace back to Ukrainian 
8/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
soil,  rather  than  freeze  the  conflict  or  cement  the 
presence of the aggressor and its proxies in Donbas. We 
firmly count on further progress on that important issue. 
After all — and perfectly in line with the theme for this 
general debate, “Making the United Nations relevant to 
all people” — it is through Security Council-mandated 
peacekeeping  operations  that  the  United  Nations  can 
save countless lives and prevent further suffering.
We  remain  as  determined  as  ever  to  continue  to 
defend every inch of our territory against aggression. At 
the same time, we will continue to explore all available 
means  to  end  the  conflict  peacefully  and  restore  the 
territorial  integrity  of  my  country.  Let  me  stress  that 
Ukraine  has  always  put  first  legal  and  diplomatic 
means  of  conflict  resolution.  We  have  prioritized 
multilateralism by turning to support from the United 
Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe and the Council of Europe, as well as other 
international  organizations,  forums  and  mechanisms. 
We will continue along that path. Moscow will feel the 
strength of the rule of international law.
We  have  initiated  several  legal  cases  against  the 
Russian  side  in  international  courts.  We  have  already 
achieved  important  results  in  some  of  those  cases.  In 
particular,  at  the  beginning  of  2017,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  ordered  Russia  to  lift  the  ban  on  the 
activities  of  the  Mejlis  —  the  representative  body  of 
Crimean Tatars in occupied Crimea. However, Russia 
continues  to  ignore  that  ruling,  demonstrating  its 
disregard not only for its international obligations but 
also for the Court.
Another  important  element  of  our  case  before 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the  downing  of 
Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17, in the year 2014, and 
the role of the Russian Federation in that tragedy. It is 
important  that  Australia  and  the  Netherlands  recently 
joined Ukraine in its efforts to bring Russia to account. 
The international community has repeatedly called on 
Russia  to  acknowledge  its  responsibility  and  change 
its  destructive  behaviour  in  Ukraine  and  elsewhere. 
We know that following the legal pathway is a lengthy 
process,  but  we  are  confident  that  it  will  allow  us  to 
achieve justice in the end.
It  has  been  almost  four  years  since  Russia’s 
attempted annexation and illegal occupation of Crimea 
and  Sevastopol.  Under  Russian  occupation,  Crimea 
has  become  a  military  stronghold,  threatening  the 
security  and  stability  of  the  entire  Black  Sea  region. 
We believe that the increasing militarization of Crimea 
deserves  the  General  Assembly’s  close  attention  and 
prompt  reaction.  Russia’s  aggressive  policies  and 
arrogance in using lethal weapons multiply that threat. 
In that regard, Ukraine is counting on the active support 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  implement  the  relevant 
resolutions during this session.
Since  the  first  day  of  the  illegal  occupation  of 
Crimea,  Crimean  Tatars  and  ethnic  Ukrainians  have 
faced  repression  and  discrimination.  There  are  many 
cases  of  murder,  torture,  harassment  and  arrest  on 
fabricated  charges.  The  list  of  hostages  and  victims 
owing  to  the  Russian  occupation  regime  in  Crimea 
is  growing  longer  by  the  day.  Being  of  Ukrainian  or 
Crimean  identity  seems  to  be  a  criminal  offence  in 
today’s reality on the occupied peninsula.
A  Crimean  farmer,  Volodymyr  Balukh,  was 
arrested  and  sentenced  to  five  years  in  prison  for 
raising  a  Ukrainian  flag  over  his  private  residence. 
Crimean  film  director  Oleg  Sentsov  remains  behind 
bars  in  a  remote  penal  colony  in  northern  Russia, 
serving  a  20-year  prison  term  on  fabricated  charges. 
Both Oleg and Volodymyr are hanging in the balance 
between life and death as they remain on hunger strike. 
I  highly  appreciate  the  extraordinary  manifestation 
of  support  and  unity  throughout  the  world  in  seeking 
the  freedom  of  those  brave  people.  Unfortunately, 
the  Kremlin  remains  blind  and  deaf  to  those  appeals 
from  the  international  community  and  from  many  of 
Russia’s intellectuals. I call on States Members of the 
United Nations to strengthen their efforts in demanding 
respect  for  human  rights  in  the  temporarily  occupied 
Crimea  by  adopting  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
draft resolutions.
There  are  also  dozens  of  Ukrainians  being  held 
by  the  occupiers  in  the  Donbas  region  since  the  start 
of  the  Russian  aggression  in  2014.  Ukrainian  soldier 
Serhii  Glondar  has  never  seen  his  youngest  daughter, 
as he has been held captive for three-and-a-half years. 
All Ukrainian proposals to exchange Russian citizens 
convicted  of  crimes  against  our  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  for  the  Ukrainian  citizens  being 
held  as  political  prisoners  by  the  Kremlin  remain 
unanswered.
That 
is 
just 
another 
of  Russia’s 
recklessness  —  first  sending  and  inciting  its  own 
citizens into this war and then simply abandoning them 
afterwards.  That  is  the  thing  about  today’s  Russia: 
side 
18-29877
9/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
it  absolutely  does  not  care.  It  does  not  care  about 
suffering. It does not care about truth. It does not care 
about the law. It thinks that its military might and status 
at the United Nations gives it that right. It is up to us to 
prove it wrong. It is up to us to make it care. Otherwise, 
what is the point of us being here? What would be the 
difference  between  the  era  before  the  United  Nations 
and that with the United Nations?
In  a  broader  context,  Ukraine  has  always 
considered the protection of human rights as one of the 
cornerstones  of  United  Nations  activities.  Sustainable 
peace  and  security  cannot  be  achieved  in  isolation 
from human rights. We therefore support the efforts to 
bring back human rights issues to the Security Council 
and promote close cooperation among all the relevant 
United Nations bodies in that area.
My country is delivering on its commitments under 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Ukraine’s  economy 
grew in the second quarter of 2018 at an annual rate of 
3.8 per cent. That marks the tenth consecutive quarter 
of  growth,  which  is  clearly  a  sustainable  trend.  The 
increase in gross domestic product (GDP) was helped by 
macroeconomic stabilization, an improved investment 
climate and a clean-up of the banking sector. Ukraine is 
demonstrating the best dynamics of growth among the 
emerging markets. Despite heavy security and defence 
expenses,  totalling  more  than  6  per  cent  of  its  GDP, 
Ukraine is undergoing fundamental transformations on 
social, economic and political tracks.
We  have  consistently  implemented  progressive 
reforms, ranging in areas from the judiciary, education, 
health  care  and  public  administration  to  carrying  out 
decentralization  and  fighting  corruption.  During  the 
period  2019-2021,  Ukraine  will  take  on  an  important 
responsibility as a member of the Economic and Social 
Council.  Based  on  its  extensive  recent  experience, 
my country looks forward to using its membership to 
strengthen the role of the Economic and Social Council 
in following up and reviewing the 2030 Agenda and the 
Sustainable Development Goals, with particular regard 
to conflict and post-conflict settings.
Among  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
Ukraine  particularly  welcomes  the  United  Nations 
initiatives  aimed  at  reducing  global  hunger.  Today, 
with  more  than  850  million  people  starving  around 
the  world,  my  country  cannot  stand  idle  and  is  ready 
to offer its help to the world in addressing the issue of 
food security. Ukraine knows the cost of that tragedy 
like no one else. In November, we will mark the eighty-
fifth anniversary of one of the deadliest crimes of the 
twentieth  century  —  that  of  the  Holodomor,  which 
saw  mass  starvation  in  Ukraine, artificially  created 
by  the  Stalinist  regime.  It  took  the  lives  of  several 
million  Ukrainians.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
renew my appeal to the Assembly to mark one of the 
greatest  tragedies  in  human  history  by  adopting  a 
dedicated declaration.
Our  Organization  is  only  as  strong  as  we  want 
and  allow  it  to  be.  Therefore,  our  full  support  and 
strong  political  will  are  required  to  ensure  that  the 
United  Nations  remains  relevant  in  today’s  uncertain 
and  turbulent  times,  and  relevant,  as  is  rightly  stated 
in  the  theme  of  this  general  debate,  to  all  people.  It 
is  our  mission  and  shared  responsibility  to  empower 
the  United  Nations  to  do  what  is  expected  of  the 
Organization and to do it through our global leadership 
based on the shared values of freedom, the rule of law 
and tolerance.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Ukraine for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, 
President of the Republic of Honduras
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Honduras.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Juan Orlando 
Hernández  Alvarado,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Honduras, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Hernández  Alvarado 
in 
Spanish):  In  delivering  my  statement  to  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  I  would  like 
to  express  my  gratitude  for  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  to  the  national  political  dialogue  under  way 
in  Honduras,  undertaken  at  the  initiative  of  several 
opposition leaders as well as my Government. Various 
10/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
political  forces  and  civil  society  organizations  are 
taking part in the national dialogue, which remains open 
to anyone wishing to participate. One of the main goals 
of the dialogue is to propose electoral reforms with a 
view to building a new model. Only yesterday, by 110 
out  of  128  votes,  the  National  Congress  of  Honduras 
appointed  a  committee  for  modernizing  and  updating 
the national identification system from which the voter 
registry  is  established.  As  well,  the  idea  is  to  set  up 
a  new,  modern  and  transparent  technical  system  for 
authentic identification, all with a view to development.
As we meet at this great world forum and express our 
most sincere desire to work together as a team in order 
to build peace and find solutions, I also cannot avoid 
expressing my frustration at the lack of will and courage 
to make possible many of the ideas voiced here, despite 
the  enormous  size  and  amount  of  resources  managed 
by the United Nations. Since the creation of the United 
Nations, it has been well established that respect for the 
sovereignty and self-determination of every State must 
be a priority for world peace. The principle of sovereign 
equality is crucial for the stability of the world. If we 
want to live in a harmonious system, we must comply 
with the pillars of the Organization, as reflected in the 
Charter of the United Nations.
We  see  international  forces  and  actors  constantly 
looking out for their own interests and interfering in our 
internal affairs, among other things, thereby affecting 
our democracy, which is a fundamental element for the 
development of nations that we are willing to defend. I 
say this today and I will say it tomorrow and always: it 
is necessary to protect the rule of law in our homeland. 
We  live  in  new  times  with  new  realities  and  new 
challenges.  The  world  demands  great  transformations 
and profound reforms. It is up to our current generation 
of leaders to live up to the demands of our peoples. That 
is an unavoidable responsibility.
I should now like to speak about the reality in my 
country, Honduras. We have been one of the countries 
most  impacted  by  extreme  weather  events  over  the 
past  20  years,  ranking  first  in  the  Germanwatch 
Global  Climate  Risk  Index.  Despite  being  one  of  the 
world’s  most  vulnerable  countries,  Honduran  society 
as a whole has been working to combat the effects of 
climate  change.  Excessive  bureaucracy  has  prevented 
access  to  financing  from  the  vaunted  green  funds; 
were we to have access, it would allow us to undertake 
action and contribute to reforestation, conservation and 
mitigation.  I  am  convinced  that  it  is  the  obligation  of 
the United Nations and of each and every one of us to 
review  and  resolve  as  soon  as  possible  the  way  those 
funds are used, rather than keeping them locked up in 
the vaults of the banks of the world. Every minute that 
those funds remain in bank vaults, the banking system 
gets richer and causes suffering to humankind.
Migration  is  a  human  right.  Human  beings  have 
been on the move and migrating for centuries, thereby 
contributing to the social and economic development of 
the countries that welcomed them as they sought better 
opportunities.  Honduras  and  the  Central  American 
region are no exception. Unfortunately, in recent times 
the entire world has witnessed the cruelty with which 
migrants, including my compatriots, have been treated. 
We  have  all  seen  the  subhuman  conditions  in  which 
they are held in detention centres, which trample on the 
dignity inherent to the human person. That undignified 
treatment is in addition to the daily abuse that thousands 
of migrants receive along the route of terror from South 
America through Central America to the United States, 
where  they  are  victims  of  all  kinds  of  violations  by 
criminal  networks,  whether  they  be  called  coyotes, 
human traffickers, drug traffickers, maras or gangs.
I  reaffirm  that  the  principle  of  the  dignity  of  the 
human person is a fundamental part of the Charter of the 
United Nations. We must act against the circumstances 
in which the most sacred institution of humankind, the 
family,  is  trampled  upon  and  destroyed.  With  much 
pain, to date we continue to await the reunification of 
120  separated  children,  who  are  being  deprived  of  a 
right so basic and, at the same time, so fundamental for 
their development as is the family unit. The members 
of  the  Assembly  can  never  forget  the  commitment 
to  universal  and  effective  respect  for  fundamental 
human  rights  and  freedoms,  in  which  the  overriding 
interests  of  children  must  prevail.  That  is  where  we 
need diligence from senior United Nations officials and 
every Government of the world.
took 
Mr.  Vitrenko  (Ukraine),  Vice-President, 
the Chair.
Economic  integration  in  Central  America  has 
been  a  major  dream  that  we  have  longed  for  since 
1951.  Honduras,  Guatemala  and  El  Salvador  took  the 
initiative today to take a step towards fulfilling that goal 
by  creating  the  first  customs  union  in  the  Americas. 
Our region enjoys a privileged location, with maritime 
borders  on  both  the  Pacific  and  Atlantic  Oceans, 
thereby acting as a link connecting the rest of the world 
18-29877
11/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
to the Americas. Our objective is the establishment of 
a Central American common market, which entails the 
creation  of  a  free  trade  zone  and  a  common  external 
tariff  that  establish  the  foundation  for  setting  up  a 
Central American customs union. That is one of those 
instances where the United Nations must become more 
aggressively involved.
We are working on integrating into that system the 
other countries of Central America, thereby enhancing 
a zone that holds great potential and enormous resources 
to  be  developed.  Once  fully  established  in  Central 
America,  that  effort  will  make  us  the  seventh-largest 
economy in Latin America. This model represents an 
opportunity  to  promote  an  American  customs  union 
that  ensures  the  economic  integration  of  the  entire 
continent. Today, from this rostrum, I invite delegations, 
on the basis of paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1 of the 
Charter of the United Nations, and with the support of 
the Organization of American States, to turn the region 
into an area of peace, prosperity and free trade, like the 
one Morazán and Bolívar imagined.
A customs union seeks to facilitate trade, but trade 
in  which  justice  and  fairness  prevail.  Today,  the  item 
at  the  top  of  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations  is  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  which  in 
essence  constitute  a  frontal  attack  on  poverty.  In  the 
context  of  the  commitments  it  has  undertaken  under 
the  SDGs,  my  Government  has  already  approved 
the  establishment  of  a  national  commission  for  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  Still, 
the  SDGs  have  sadly  been 
interpreted  as  setting  forth  double  standards,  as 
millions  of  coffee  producers  —  mainly  the  smallest 
ones,  who  are  today  receiving  a  price  below  their 
costs,  which  undoubtedly  leads  them  in  to  extreme 
poverty  —  have  witnessed.  That  is  the  case  with 
approximately 90,000 coffee-producing families in my 
country, Honduras — and when I speak of my country, 
Honduras,  in  terms  of  coffee  production,  I  am  not 
talking about just any country, because we are the fifth-
largest coffee producer in the world, the third-largest in 
America and the largest in Central America.
I  would  like  to  ask  members  of  delegations  a 
question.  How  many  of  them  have  a  cup  of  coffee  in 
the morning or during the day? We know that there is 
a  very  high  possibility  that,  without  knowing  it,  they 
have participated in an enormous injustice. Since we are 
all  promoters  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
we must not turn a deaf ear to the fact that generates 
extreme  poverty.  A  cup  of  coffee  in  New  York  City 
can cost $5, or 500 cents. Do members of delegations 
know  how  much  the  small  coffee  producers  in  my 
country receive after working hard under the sun and 
rain, harvesting every single grain of coffee by hand? 
I want to tell them — these producers do not get even 
two cents for every cup of coffee, and it costs $5, or 500 
cents, yielding barely two cents for the producer. Is this 
or is this not an injustice?
I know that those who applaud recognize that it is 
an injustice. That cannot be. We cannot close our eyes, 
stop listening or cease allowing something to stir in our 
conscience and wake us up. That is why we are here.
We  have  been  talking  about  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  for  a  long  time.  However,  I  must 
ask, does it make sense to ignore the crisis that millions 
of  small  coffee  producers  are  living  through?  In  my 
country, there are only approximately 90,000, but in the 
Americas  all  together  there  are  more  than  14  million 
producers  and  in  the  world  25  million  producer 
families,  and  millions  more  indirectly  dependent  on 
coffee production. We must act now — today.
While the United Nations is taking action on this 
issue  —  I  say  this  because  I  am  convinced  that  it  is 
going  to  take  action  on  the  issue  —  I  call  on  all  the 
Presidents  of  the  coffee-producing  countries  and  the 
coffee producers of the world to organize themselves, 
because it is clear that no one is in fact looking out for 
the interests of the world’s poor small coffee producers.
The first time I had the honour of addressing the 
General Assembly, I said that the greatest tragedy that 
Honduras  has  suffered  in  the  history  of  the  Republic 
has  been  the  wave  of  violence  resulting  from  drug 
trafficking  (see  A/69/PV.7).  Our  country  is  a  transit 
zone  for  drugs  produced  in  the  southern  part  of  the 
continent and consumed in the north. In addition to the 
scourge  of  drug  trafficking,  gangs,  youth  gangs  and 
criminal  groups  have  in  the  past  literally  supplanted 
States  themselves  in  several  regions,  countries  and 
circumstances.  In  my  country, 
there  are  armed 
non-State  groups  that,  when  affirmatively  confronted 
by  good  Hondurans  who  desire  to  live  in  peace,  and 
are  the  object  of  the  Government’s  efforts  to  restore 
peace  and  security,  go  so  far  as  to  threaten  electoral 
processes, democracy and the rule of law. It is my firm 
conviction that in Honduras these non-State actors are 
violating fundamental rights — the human rights — of 
thousands  of  their  compatriots.  More  alarming  is  the 
12/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
fact  that  I  have  repeatedly  made  this  denunciation  in 
other United Nations bodies and in the Organization of 
American States, and until today we have not received 
any answers.
That is why I wanted to clearly draw the Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  issue.  This  situation  should  trigger 
alarms for States and specifically for the United Nations 
in  the  defence  of  the  rule  of  law  and  representative 
democracy.  I  emphasize  that  it  is  a  question  of  such 
fundamental  rights  as  the  right  to  life,  freedom  and 
the  enjoyment  of  participatory  democracy.  Therefore, 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  ask  that  delegations  draft  a 
resolution that recognizes that gangs, youth gangs and 
other criminal groups should be considered non-State 
entities  that  violate  human  rights  and  threaten  the 
stability of States.
At  a  high  cost  and  at  great  risk,  we  in  Honduras 
decided to face this monstrous multiheaded challenge, 
and like very few countries in the region we have made 
progress, increasingly entrenching a climate of greater 
security  and  peace  each  day.  But  I  can  acknowledge 
that not enough has been done yet. That is why there 
can  be  no  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  that 
considers  itself  a  supporter  of  democracy,  pacifist  or 
full of respect for life and does not heed our call, which 
is also the call of other peoples who have suffered under 
the same circumstances.
We must honour that generation that had the vision 
to create the General Assembly and ensure respect for 
the  sovereignty  of  nations  and  the  self-determination 
of peoples. I represent a country that, like every country, 
has problems and faces great challenges. I represent a 
country that is small in the size of its territory but great 
in dignity. I emphatically wish to say that I could not 
forgive myself coming to the General Assembly and not 
making an appeal to the conscience of world leaders to 
adopt a transcendent attitude, demanding that we pass 
from words to concrete actions that change the lives of 
the peoples of the world for the better.
I  call  for  the  protection  of  our  democracies  and 
human rights from attacks by armed non-State actors, 
gangs,  youth  gangs  and  criminal  groups.  I  call  for 
respect for the principle of the best interests of the child 
and the family as the holiest institution of humankind. 
I  call  for  leading  by  example  when  it  comes  to  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
protecting  the  world’s  small  coffee  producers  so  that 
they  receive  what  they  deserve  through  a  truly  fair 
trade, since this fair trade implies not only obligations 
for  producers  but  also  that  their  rights  are  respected, 
which is what access to a fair profit would be.
In Honduras, we are ready to move from words and 
promises on paper to action. In Honduras, we are ready 
to act through actions that bring results.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Honduras for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces of the 
Republic of Kenya
Uhuru 
Kenyatta, 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President and Commander-in-Chief 
of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Kenya.
President 
Mr. 
and 
Commander in -Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the 
Republic  of  Kenya,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President 
and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of 
the  Republic  of  Kenya,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President  Kenyatta:  Let  me  take  this  very  early 
opportunity 
to  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  to  preside  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  have 
no  doubt  that  the  experience  she  draws  from  her 
distinguished  career  in  the  service  of  the  Republic  of 
Ecuador will be invaluable to her as she executes her 
new  responsibility.  I  also  note  with  appreciation  that 
her  strategic  priorities  for  the  seventy-third  session, 
namely,  strengthening  multilateralism,  catalysing  the 
well-being of all persons and working to bring about a 
sustainable planet, as well as building a stronger, more 
efficient  multilateral  system,  converge  with  Kenya’s 
aspirations. It is therefore my pleasure to reaffirm my 
Government’s  complete  commitment  to  our  shared 
vision and to supporting the President during her tenure.
18-29877
13/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
The seventy-third session of the General Assembly 
is  the  second  session  to  be  held  during  the  tenure  of 
Secretary-General  Guterres,  who  has  already  spoken 
publicly  about  the  financial  situation  of  the  United 
Nations and has even spelled out reforms that need to be 
executed to ensure optimal utilization of our finances. 
I  applaud  the  Secretary-General  for  his  efforts  and 
courage to cut costs and for his commitment to ensuring 
that  the  Organization’s  resources  are  better  managed. 
Indeed,  I  am  convinced  that  part  of  those  objectives 
will  be  achieved  with  the  adoption  of  the  proposals 
made in the context of the adoption of the global service 
delivery model. In that regard, it is my hope that Kenya 
will have the privilege to host one of the proposed three 
service centres. I also applaud the commitment of the 
United Nations staff, who are engaged daily in tackling 
a  myriad  of  challenges  that  are  greater  than  any  one 
country or region can resolve on its own.
Kenya  strongly  supports  the  General  Assembly’s 
embrace  of  better  alignment  in  the  mandates  of 
urbanization,  human  settlement  and  environmental 
governance. Its approach will enable the United Nations 
Human  Settlements  Programme  (UN-Habitat)  and 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP) 
to fully deliver on their role as global focal points for 
human  settlements  and  environmental  matters  for  the 
entire United Nations system.
Even  as  we  speak  of  important  reforms  at  the 
United Nations, we must also recognize that the need 
for reforms is much broader and of greater significance 
than  previously  acknowledged.  In  almost  every  part 
of  the  world,  a  growing  lack  of  trust  is  opening  a 
dangerous  gap  between  citizens  and  their  governing 
institutions.  That  situation  is  partly  the  result  of  the 
impact of a number of significant factors, key among 
which is the growing demand by all our citizenry for 
accountability, occasioned by the attendant awareness 
of  the  gap  between  available  resources  and  the 
provision of services to populations. Such demands are 
also fuelled by a growing awareness of the scourge of 
corruption  and  wastage  of  public  resources  and  their 
negative effects on the lives and hopes of people.
Due to the benefits of accessible information, never 
before  in  human  history  have  so  many  people  known 
how public trust is undermined by acts of commission 
or omission by a few individuals or networks, both in the 
private and public sectors. Weak systems of governance 
are manipulated and exploited for the gain of predatory 
interests  at  the  expense  of  the  common  person.  Free 
In  addition 
to 
their  earnings 
media and social media are rife with news of outright 
fraud,  cynical  conflicts  of  interest  and  financial 
arrangements  that  privatize  gains  during  prosperous 
times and socialize losses during economic catastrophe.
individual  corruption,  major 
corporations  misrepresent 
to  deny 
Governments  revenue  needed  for  investment  in  the 
public  good.  The  extraction  of  mineral  and  other 
resources continues to be subject to corrupt dealings that 
not  only  deny  communities  and  countries  any  benefit 
but  almost  routinely  lead  to  violence  and  instability. 
Such dealings have over several decades been clothed 
with  the  garments  of  legality,  institutionalizing  the 
exploitation by cartels and oligopolies that are pillaging 
Africa and other underdeveloped regions of their natural 
wealth. That is the source of the popular theorizing on 
Africa’s resource curse.
It has become clearer to citizens all over the world 
that  what  is  enabling  the  illegal  and  illicit  conduct 
of  corrupt  individuals  and  companies  is  a  globalized 
financial and legal system. Its impact is worldwide but 
it is probably the leading cause of most of the suffering 
on the African continent.
There  is  increasing  evidence  that  Africa  is  a  net 
exporter of much-needed capital to the world through 
illicit  outflows.  Conservative  estimates  indicate  that 
between  1980  and  2009  illicit  money  outflows  from 
Africa ranged from $1.2 trillion to $1.4 trillion, roughly 
equal  to  Africa’s  current  gross  domestic  product  and 
surpassing  by  far  the  money  it  received  from  outside 
over  the  same  period.  Every  illicit  dollar  that  leaves 
Africa  goes  somewhere  —  most  often  to  where  the 
rest  of  the  money  from  tax  evaders  and  criminals  is 
hidden. Africans suffer as a result, but the irony is that 
what is done to Africa is eventually done to the rest of 
the world.
The present system of transferring and laundering 
illicit capital is enabling corrupt networks all over the 
world to illegally acquire in one country, while being 
welcomed  with  open  arms  as  investors  in  another. 
The  same  system  is  used  by  drug  cartels  and  even 
terrorist networks. Collectively, drug addiction, violent 
extremism,  international  crime  and  terrorist  actions 
result in misery and hurt to millions of victims all over 
the world.
The  most  tragic  manifestation  of  the  destructive 
impact of the misery as a result of the crimes mentioned 
heretofore is the loss of trust in governing institutions 
14/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels.  As  people 
observe  the  impunity,  they  increasingly  feel  that  the 
economic  systems  are  rigged  against  their  hopes. 
Therefore, the trust deficit grows.
Frequently, 
institutions  of  Government  have 
become  desirable  vehicles  to  capture  ethnic  or  racial 
interests  articulated  by  populists  and  extremists  who 
thrive  in  chronic  instability  and  drive  it  forward 
with  their  incitement.  When  networks  and  cartels  in 
Government capture the State for their own selfish gain 
and represent themselves as champions of an ethnic or 
religious group, the result is all too often civil strife and 
civil war. In such an atmosphere, the result of a political 
competition can begin to seem like an existential threat 
to groups and their members.
The  fragility  of  our  world  is  also  manifest  in 
instability and conflicts, as in the case of both Somalia 
and South Sudan. In Somalia, the African Union Mission 
in Somalia (AMISOM) is a unique regional effort that 
has deeply degraded one of Al-Qaida’s most ambitious 
affiliates.  Kenya  has  been  part  of  that  journey  from 
the start. It was in Nairobi where a transitional federal 
State was negotiated into existence, with the material 
and  moral  support  of  the  Kenyan  people.  We  have 
never  wavered.  Kenyans  have  lost  lives  and  property 
in  pursuit  of  peace  and  stability  in  Somalia,  and  we 
appreciate our regional and international colleagues and 
partners. In Somalia, a historic chapter on Africa’s will 
to peace and security is being written. We appreciate 
the partners standing with the region.
But  the  job  is  not  yet  done.  We  must  ensure 
military  success  over  Al-Shabaab  if  other  political 
and  economic  solutions  are  to  take  firm  root.  So  far, 
the  troop-contributing  countries  continue  to  bear  a 
disproportionate  burden.  We  have  consistently  sought 
the kind of international support that is commensurate 
with  the  threat  scenario,  including  in  the  form  of 
enablers  and  force  multipliers.  These  have  not  been 
forthcoming.  What  the  international  community  is 
doing with regard to Somalia is not good enough. We 
understand that these are difficult times economically, 
but global terrorism must be faced boldly. If we have 
learned any real lessons in the past 20 years, we should 
appreciate that AMISOM needs support, and it is up to 
all of us to make that happen.
In  building  peace  there  are  no  silver  bullets.  The 
process of bringing stability and peace to South Sudan 
requires  commitment.  It  requires  us  to  walk  closely 
with the South Sudanese parties, particularly now after 
the signing of the revitalized peace agreement. Kenya 
is  proud  of  having  walked  with  the  Sudan  and  South 
Sudan in their pursuit of peace and stability. We have 
always known and firmly believe that the constancy of 
our  efforts  would  yield  the  fruit  of  a  prosperous  and 
free South Sudan.
Today,  we  call  on  all  Member  States  to  join  us 
in  that  endeavour  for  peace  and  stability  in  South 
Sudan. I appeal to all Members, development partners, 
international  agencies  and  friends  of  South  Sudan 
to  redouble  their  efforts  and  support  this  cause  to 
end  the  suffering  of  the  children,  women  and  men  of 
South Sudan.
Allow me to turn to the global sphere, which has also 
not been spared the challenges of today. Multilateralism 
is  under  severe  strain,  as  evidenced  by  our  global 
trading and economic management system. Rarely has 
the  system  of  trade  and  security  that  was  established 
following  the  Second  World  War,  under  the  auspices 
of  the  United  Nations,  been  under  greater  strain.  The 
populism and extremism unleashed at the national level 
has brought forward powerful constituencies that want 
a dismantling of the global order.
I believe that the most urgent political task in the 
world  today  is  to  close  the  trust  gap  between  people 
and governing institutions. Governments are not owed 
trust by citizens; that trust must be won and protected. 
It is not an exaggeration to say that the future of global 
stability and the continuity of many States turn on this 
issue.
There  are  bold  solutions  that  we  must  embrace 
in  order  to  succeed.  We  have  to  fight  impunity, 
seriously and without fear or favour. In Kenya, we are 
undertaking  an  aggressive  campaign  against  fraud 
and  abuse  of  public  trust.  We  have  reached  out  to 
our  partners  in  Switzerland  and  the  United  Kingdom 
to  take  action  against  transfers  of  illegal  proceeds  of 
corruption  to  their  banking  and  financial  systems. 
We  will  pursue  more  such  bilateral  arrangements. 
They  must  be  accompanied  by  determined  reforms 
that  are  subject  to  clear  timelines  and  standards,  and 
which  combat  systemic  corruption  in  the  multilateral 
system, money-laundering and the offshoring of illicit 
outflows. The single overarching aim must be to make 
it exceedingly difficult to transfer and launder illegally 
acquired wealth in any part of the world.
18-29877
15/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
Indeed, all United Nations bodies should be given 
the  task  of  detecting  corruption  in  their  different 
focus  areas  and  promoting  the  skills  and  systems  to 
combat it, in the understanding that honest, transparent 
and  responsive  Government  is  fundamental  to  the 
achievement  of  their  aims.  We  must  create  a  stronger 
understanding of the presence and impact of such deals 
in their different focus areas.
The  gap  in  trust  that  we  are  talking  about  at  the 
national level can also be found at the global level and 
is  aimed  squarely  at  the  leadership  and  processes  of 
the  multilateral  system,  as  reflected  in  the  Security 
Council,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  other 
parts of the system. In the years following the Second 
World War, the present status quo was functional and 
understandable.  That  is  no  longer  the  case  75  years 
later. The global governance system must also undergo 
reform if it is to be relevant and effective.
The  clearest  sign  that  change  is  real  will  be  in 
reforms  to  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
Kenya  joins  the  demand  for  two  permanent  seats  for 
Africa  —  with  the  rights  and  prerogatives  of  current 
members,  including  the  right  of  veto,  as  well  as 
additional non-permanent seats. As we all know, Africa 
is underrepresented in the non-permanent category of the 
Security Council, and we are not represented at all in the 
permanent category. That historical injustice is a clear 
indication  of  the  skewed  system  that  has  perpetuated 
an  exclusive  model  of  governance  that  fuels  the  trust 
gap  between  nations.  The  governance,  leadership  and 
employment in United Nations funds, programmes and 
agencies must also become more noticeably inclusive of 
the global South, especially Africa.
Kenya is a proud host to the only United Nations 
global  headquarters  in  the  global  South,  namely,  the 
headquarters  of  both  UNEP  and  UN-Habitat,  whose 
mandates and effectiveness we are strongly committed to 
supporting. We strongly believe that the multilateralism 
that  would  headquarter  major  organizations  in  Africa 
and  the  global  South  is  what  the  world  needs.  Global 
decision-making needs more of Africa if the world is to 
respond wisely to the demographic and economic shifts 
that are under way.
Without Governments and the international system 
addressing  the  broadening  deficits  in  fairness  and 
inclusiveness,  corruption,  populism,  radicalization, 
civil  strife  and  political  instability  will  continue 
to  destabilize  and  destroy.  Today’s  problems,  risks 
and  threats  are  complex  and  call  for  more  —  not 
less — cooperation, more —not less — observance of 
the rule of law, more — not less — negotiation. We need 
a rules-based multilateral system. We are at a decisive 
moment, and Kenya will play its part to be a champion 
for change. I welcome all delegations in a campaign for 
our collective benefit.
In  conclusion,  the  sea  is  increasingly  being  seen 
as a sustainable source of food, jobs and prosperity for 
the growing populations of the world. It is with that in 
mind that Kenya and Canada will co-host the first-ever 
global conference on the sustainable blue economy from 
26  to  28  November  this  year,  in  Nairobi.  I  therefore 
take this opportunity to welcome all delegations to this 
conference and its deliberations on how we can access 
and harness financing, technology and skills as well as 
innovations  and  capacity-building  to  allow  us  to  turn 
the  blue  economy  into  a  driver  of  millions  of  jobs,  a 
source  of  food  and  sustainable  shared  prosperity.  We 
will  be  greatly  honoured  to  host  you,  Mr.  President, 
in Nairobi.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of 
the 
General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  and 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the 
Republic of Kenya for the statement he has just made.
Uhuru 
President 
Kenyatta, 
Mr. 
and 
Commander in -Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the 
Republic  of  Kenya,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President, Head of Government 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Immigration  of 
the Republic of Kiribati.
Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration 
of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, 
Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and  Immigration  of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
16/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
President Maamau: I begin by sharing peace and 
blessings  among  us  all  and  conveying  warm  Pacific 
greetings  from  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Kiribati. In the name of Almighty God, Kam na bane ni 
Mauri — May all be blessed.
I join other leaders in congratulating the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  the  Government  of 
Ecuador, on her election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. I wish her every 
success as she discharges her functions by making the 
United  Nations  family  relevant  to  all  Members.  By 
the same token, I would also like to acknowledge the 
outgoing President, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, and the Slovak 
Republic for the very engaging and outcome-oriented 
leadership of the seventy-second session. I also thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  excellent  leadership,  in 
particular with regard to the current reform to make the 
United Nations fit for purpose and more adaptable for 
the present and future.
We commend the President of the General Assembly 
for the theme that she has chosen for the seventy-third 
session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people:  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”. 
That is a strong call on and reminder to all leaders and 
the  United  Nations  machinery  that  the  effectiveness 
of  our  efforts  is  measured  not  by  how  much  we  have 
achieved, but by how much we have changed the lives 
of those whom we serve for the better. Clearly, it was 
the primary intent of the founders that this should be 
the  United  Nations  as  they  envisioned  it.  It  is  about 
servant  leadership,  whereby  leadership  is  not  only 
about serving but, more important, about protecting the 
lives of the powerless — those without a voice, those 
taken advantage of by the more powerful in society, and 
those who cannot help themselves politically.
We are reminded time and again that those people’s 
lives are precious in the sight of God. In her captivating 
and simple words, Mother Theresa reflected powerfully 
on the life of a servant leader when she said, “A life not 
lived for others is not a life”. As leaders, it is our shared 
responsibility to ensure that we see to that. The theme 
also provides a timely call for a renewal of friendship, 
solidarity,  cooperation  and  partnership  between  and 
among  the  peoples  and  nations  of  the  world,  thereby 
allowing greater commitment on all our part to make a 
difference for the well-being of all.
Kiribati has long recognized the prime importance 
of peaceful living, characterized by our own traditional, 
humble way of living in harmony with one another and 
our environment. Those are sustained through regular 
community  meetings  in  traditional  local  meeting 
houses,  called  maneaba,  to  discuss  important  issues 
concerning  the  village  and  to  address  issues  under 
the  wise  and  experienced  guidance  of  our  elders. 
Decisions are made to promote mutual understanding, 
respect and cooperation among members of the entire 
society. Maneaba means “to embrace all” — a holistic 
system  in  which  leadership  and  shared  responsibility 
are  undertaken  for  the  benefit  of  the  whole  society. 
the  maneaba  system  maintains 
Accordingly, 
its 
fundamentality as central and relevant to the people.
In  the  Pacific  context,  other  relevant  instruments 
have  been  adopted  to  address  social,  economic  and 
political  risks  and  security.  Some  have  worked, 
while  others  have  not,  but  that  does  not  stop  us  from 
maintaining our resolve, through our own Pacific way, 
to undertake meaningful dialogue in which agreement 
through  consensus  serves  as  a  prevalent  norm. 
Moreover,  the  Pacific  accounts  for  20  per  cent  of  the 
world’s oceans in terms of our exclusive economic zone, 
and therefore the completion of maritime boundaries is 
very critical to providing certainty about the ownership 
of our ocean space in the face of climate change.
A  united  world  free  from  the  threats  of  wars  and 
violence, rooted in our greed to dominate others, is the 
kind  of  world  that  we  want  for  all  of  us  and  for  our 
children’s  generation.  Our  ultimate  aim  is  to  ensure 
that everyone can lead a happy, prosperous and secure 
future.  The  adoption  of  the  historic  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in  1982  has  also 
enabled us to own and sustainably manage a huge area 
of ocean, from which we can further improve our well-
being  and  enjoy  returns  from  our  fisheries  resources. 
The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  has  also 
assured us that the radiation-related illnesses suffered 
by our people during and after the 1960s nuclear testing 
on Christmas Island and other parts of the world will 
not recur in the future. There are many other examples 
of  how 
instruments 
have contributed immensely to our national efforts to 
improve our island way of life. We have no doubt that 
other peoples and nations see the United Nations in the 
same light.
international  resolutions  and 
As an organization, the United Nations is bound to 
be constantly pulled and pushed between two opposing 
18-29877
17/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
but  interconnected  interests:  the  personal  interests  of 
those leading and driving it, on the one hand, and the 
interests of the people for whom it exists, on the other. 
It is therefore critical that the Assembly have the ability 
to ensure that a balance is maintained so that the United 
Nations does not end up benefiting only those running 
and facilitating its operations.
In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  the  outcome 
of  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system,  on  which  our  views  have  been  adequately 
expressed  through  statements  made  on  our  behalf  by 
the  groupings  of  the  Pacific  small  island  developing 
States,  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States,  the  least 
developed countries and the Group of 77 and China. In 
particular, we look forward to the positioning of a new 
Resident Coordinator to serve the northern and central 
Pacific territories and countries. We also look forward 
to the outcome of other reforms and reviews pertaining 
to the Security Council, the Human Rights Council, the 
eligibility  and  graduation  criteria  in  relation  to  least 
developed  countries  and,  finally,  the  financing  status 
of the United Nations.
We  also  fully  appreciate  the  United  Nations 
particular focus on the plight of people in developing 
countries, especially those facing special difficulties. In 
that connection, we note with gratitude the Committee 
for  Development  Policy’s  recognition  of  Kiribati’s 
extreme vulnerability to the impacts of climate change 
and the need for special support. That gratitude extends 
to  the  President  and  members  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council for agreeing to our request to have our 
graduation case considered in three years’ time.
We  are  concerned  to  learn  from  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  (A/73/1)  about  the  financial 
difficulties facing the United Nations to the extent that 
it  is  affecting  not  only  its  services  but  also  the  well-
being of its staff. We understand that the United Nations 
has been relying more on voluntary contributions and 
private-sector  funding 
than  assessed  membership 
contributions, which is a significant risk. It is therefore 
high  time  for  us  to  reassess  the  validity  of  certain 
activities of the United Nations that have outlived their 
time and the need to realign strategies that were quite 
applicable  and  effective  during  the  post-war  years, 
when  States  were  the  key  drivers  of  United  Nations 
services.  Those  are  no  longer  effective  with  United 
Nations  services  becoming  the  exclusive  domain  of 
huge  multinational  corporations  that  often  put  profit-
making over moral and ethical considerations.
One example is the hundreds of millions of dollars 
spent  annually  on  peacekeeping  and  humanitarian 
assistance. Those funds could have been better spent on 
eliminating the root causes of conflicts, armed terrorism 
and  humanitarian  crises  by  investing  United  Nations 
resources  in  the  establishment  of  good  governance, 
with good-quality, free education and health services. 
In that way, the collective resources of the world can be 
spent to treat the causes and not merely the symptoms.
Kiribati presented, for the first time, its voluntary 
national review report to the United Nations in July. As I 
stressed in the video introduction of our review, Kiribati 
has now embarked on a bold and bright narrative that 
carries our people’s voice and determination, boosted by 
various resilience-building programmes allowing us to 
forge ahead with a 20-year road map and transforming 
Kiribati  into  a  wealthy,  healthy  and  peaceful  nation 
by  2036.  That  is  our  Kiribati  20-year  vision,  known 
as KV20, which aspires to move the nation and people 
beyond  orthodoxy  through  the  unleashing  of  the 
enormous potentials vested in our fisheries and tourism. 
I  must,  however,  emphasize  that  underpinning  the 
drive and implementation of that ambitious aspiration 
is making Kiribati a corruption-free society, as part of 
our strong commitment to championing anti-corruption 
in the Pacific.
We  will  follow  through  on  that  with  the  regional 
leaders  meeting  on  anti-corruption,  to  be  held  on  our 
shores in 2019. Corruption undeniably poses a human 
risk to all forms of development, and it is the weak and 
the marginalized who suffer and bear the highest cost 
of  such  unethical  practices.  Kiribati  has  also,  for  the 
first time ever, launched a climate change policy. That 
focuses  on  building  and  strengthening  the  resilience 
of  our  islands  and  people  in  adapting  to  the  impacts 
of climate change. The policy highlights priority areas 
in  water  management,  sanitation,  coastal  protection 
and renewable energy, and will serve as the country’s 
national compass for the delivery of all climate-change 
programmes  in  Kiribati.  We  acknowledge  our  many 
partners  that  have  worked  and  continue  to  work  with 
Kiribati. We welcome those who are also ready to work 
and journey together with us to build and strengthen the 
resilience of our people and islands.
To that end, I am pleased to reaffirm that we continue 
to maintain 11 per cent of our exclusive economic zone 
in the Phoenix Islands, comprising over 400,000 square 
kilometres  of  ocean  as  a  marine  protected  area.  That 
well-known  area  —  the  Phoenix  Islands  Protected 
18/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
Area  —  is  considered  to  be  a  powerful  and  effective 
tool  for  the  rejuvenation  of  tuna  fisheries  and  other 
marine organisms and a source of resilient coral species, 
known as super corals, many of which have a lifespan 
of over 100 years. From our understanding of the early 
findings of science, the Phoenix Islands Protected Area 
is  home  to  one  of  the  richest,  most  diverse  and  most 
resilient  marine  ecosystems  on  the  planet.  It  has  the 
potential to become the most powerful source of marine 
life  enrichment  and  provide  solutions  to  many  of  the 
problems  facing  humankind,  which  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development is trying to address.
By  closing  off  the  area  to  commercial  fishing, 
we  have  sacrificed  a  substantial  amount  of  annual 
income  from  fishing  licences,  which  is  estimated 
at  approximately  10  per  cent  of  our  annual  fishing 
revenue,  averaging  almost  $10  million  annually. 
While  that  is  forgone  revenue,  it  is  part  of  Kiribati’s 
strong  commitment  to  implementing  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  In  addition,  I  am  proud 
to  announce  that  Kiribati  has  also  declared  its  entire 
exclusive economic zone as a shark sanctuary, which has 
been incorporated into our national laws. In that regard, 
we  commend  current  efforts  to  create  new  legally 
binding  instruments  on  the  use  of  marine  biological 
diversity in marine areas outside our exclusive economic 
zone, migration and the environment, all of which are 
very important for small islands like Kiribati, including 
other nations and peoples.
The United Nations theme to be delivered in the next 
12 months is about all the people living on this planet. 
That  theme  will  be  irrelevant  if  the  United  Nations 
continues to ignore the 20 million people who live and 
contribute to our shared home and to exclude them from 
the process. We are one family, and we therefore call for 
an inclusive approach enabling Taiwan to participate in 
international processes and to contribute to addressing 
areas of concern to this United Nations organ, including 
the implementation of the SDGs.
to  dominate,  while 
For too long, we have been confined to our human 
desire 
lacking  consideration, 
compassion  and  respect  for  others  as  they  seek  to 
pursue  sustainable  development  in  their  own  right 
and space, but let us remind ourselves and the United 
Nations family of the equally important responsibility 
of recognizing a space for a United Nations prayer day. 
The objective in that regard is to seek divine guidance 
for our work agenda. Quite often, we tend to overlook 
the importance of divine guidance as a powerful tool 
that can really unite our hearts in a shared aspiration to 
make the United Nations a truly global institution for 
all people and to build the trust, respect and love that 
we all need to make a genuine difference. May God’s 
grace  and  compassion  continue  to  bless  our  hearts  as 
we strive to strengthen the Organization.
In conclusion, I wish to share Kiribati’s traditional 
blessings  of  Te  mauri,  te  raoi  ao  te  tabomoa,  which 
means “health, peace and prosperity to us all”.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Immigration  of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration 
of the Republic of Kiribati, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, 
President of the Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Zimbabwe.
Mr. Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, President 
of the Republic of Zimbabwe, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emmerson  Dambudzo 
Mnangagwa,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mnangagwa:  It  is  my  honour  and 
pleasure to deliver my maiden statement in the General 
Assembly.  Allow  me  to  congratulate  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  to  preside 
over  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  As 
only  the  fourth  woman  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations to hold that important position, her election is 
indeed most appropriate in terms of addressing gender 
equality  within  the  Organization.  The  theme  that  she 
has chosen, “Making the United Nations relevant to all 
people:  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”, 
resonates  well  with  the  mantra  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, namely, to leave no one 
behind. The theme is a timely reminder for us to keep 
18-29877
19/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
the momentum going three years after the adoption of 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Also at the heart of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development is a promise to end all forms of poverty. 
That shared vision and common destiny require us all 
to do our part in order to meet the ambitious targets and 
create a better world. For us in the developing world, 
the  eradication  of  poverty  is  at  the  top  of  our  agenda 
priorities. Development must equally be placed at the 
centre  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  as  it  plays 
an  important  role  in  preventing  hunger,  deprivation, 
food insecurity, disease and, ultimately, conflict. The 
inclusion of the interests and views of women, young 
people,  children  and  vulnerable  members  of  our 
societies  should  be  integral  and  essential  components 
in all our programmes.
financing 
I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Zimbabwe  has  made 
substantial  progress  in  the  implementation  of  some 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  in  particular 
with  regard  to  ensuring  food  security.  Through  our 
people-centred  policies  and  planned  programmes, 
complemented  by  private-sector 
and 
investments,  farmers  receive  inputs,  equipment  and 
technical  support.  In  a  bid  to  improve  nutrition  and 
broaden income opportunities, we have also extended 
support  to  grow  the  livestock,  fisheries  and  wildlife 
sectors.  We  are  confident  that  those  multipronged 
programmes will accelerate Zimbabwe’s re-entry into 
the global economy and associated value chains. That is 
one example of innovation, creativity and home-grown 
solutions in addressing key development and economic 
challenges  despite  the  continued  illegal  sanctions 
imposed on our country. We call for their immediate and 
unconditional removal. Meanwhile, we look forward to 
the  first  overall  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
SDGs,  to  be  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  General 
Assembly in 2019.
Peace,  security,  stability,  democracy  and  good 
governance  are  essential  ingredients  of  sustainable 
development. In view of the fact that elections are an 
integral  element  of  democracy,  my  country  held  its 
much-anticipated  harmonized  general  elections  on 
30 July. Following my deliberate and conscious decision 
to open up democratic space and my emphatic call for 
peace, unity and tolerance of divergent views among our 
people,  political  contestations,  election  campaigning, 
voting and counting processes were conducted freely, 
peacefully and transparently. In the spirit of transparency 
and  openness,  a  broader  spectrum  of  international 
observers  and  global  media  houses  were  accredited 
to  observe  our  elections.  The  exceptionally  peaceful 
pre-  and  post-electoral  environments  represented 
the  maturing  and  entrenchment  of  democracy  in 
Zimbabwe. We are grateful to the United Nations and 
other  Member  States  for  sending  election  observer 
missions  and  for  the  technical  assistance  received  by 
our election management body. The recommendations 
will be taken into account as we deepen our democratic 
and electoral processes.
We  will  continue  to  entrench  constitutionalism, 
democratic traditions, norms, peace, unity and harmony, 
for it is indeed under such conditions that sustainable 
development, inclusive economic growth and prosperity 
can  occur.  The  isolated  and  unfortunate  incident  of 
post-election  violence  that  occurred  on  1  August,  is 
regrettable  and  most  unacceptable.  A  commission 
of  inquiry  comprised  of  eminent  persons  of  national, 
regional and international repute has begun its work in 
earnest. Its ultimate report and recommendations will 
help  us  bring  closure  to  the  matter  and  assist  in  the 
improvement of our institutional governance.
the  modernization  and 
Now that the elections are behind us, my country 
is  focusing  on  economic  development  as  we  seek  to 
jumpstart 
industrialization 
of  our  country.  The  land  reform  programme  is 
irreversibly  behind  us.  Emboldened  by  the  dreams, 
hopes  and  aspirations  of  our  people,  and  in  tandem 
with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and the African Union Agenda 2063, we have outlined 
our  vision  to  become  a  middle-income  economy  with 
a  per  capita  income  of  approximately  $3,500.  That 
will  bring  on  board  increased  investment,  decent 
jobs,  broad-based  empowerment  and  a  society  free 
from  poverty  and  corruption  by  2030.  Zimbabwe  is 
open  for  business,  and  we  are  presently  undertaking 
a  raft  of  economic  and  political  reforms  to  ensure  an 
environment  that  facilitates  inclusive  and  sustained 
economic  growth.  We  have  put  in  place  institutions 
and  instruments  that  maximize  land  utilization  and 
increase  agricultural  productivity.  Equally,  strategies 
are  in  place  in  the  various  sectors  of  our  economy  to 
enable my country to enter the global value chain. The 
development and modernization of our roads, railways, 
airports, energy and information and communications 
technology infrastructure are being accelerated. in line 
with  our  regional  and  continental  quest  for  enhanced 
connectivity and integrated infrastructure.
20/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
Zimbabwe looks forward to playing a positive and 
constructive  role  as  a  free,  democratic,  transparent, 
prosperous  and  responsible  member  of  the  family  of 
nations. We are committed to strengthening dialogue, 
cooperation  and  partnerships,  underpinned  by  mutual 
respect,  common  values  and  shared  principles.  The 
prevention  of  conflict  must  be  a  front-line  strategy. 
My  country  remains  committed  to  strengthening 
multilateralism  and 
resolution  of 
differences.  In  that  regard,  we  should  address  the 
root  causes  of  conflict,  which 
include  poverty, 
inequality,  deprivation  and  disputes  over  land  and 
resources, as well as struggles for self-determination. 
Peacemaking and peacekeeping must be complemented 
by  peacebuilding  efforts  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of 
and relapse into conflict. Zimbabwe continues to make 
its modest contributions through the deployment of its 
personnel to various United Nations peacekeeping and 
peacebuilding missions.
the  peaceful 
The  United  Nations  and  its  organs  are  in  need 
of  being  democratized.  We  join  the  call  for  Africa 
to  be  represented  in  the  permanent  category  and  to 
have  increased  representation  in  the  non-permanent 
category. That position is indeed justified in view of the 
need to correct the historical injustice that has left the 
African continent on the periphery of all major global 
decision-making  processes.  We  emphatically  call  for 
the review and reform of the Bretton Woods and other 
international financial institutions. Trade is an engine 
for development if conducted fairly and in accordance 
with  agreed  rules.  We  therefore  call  for  negotiations, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Trade  Organization, 
that would foster inclusive and shared economic growth 
and further advance the global development agenda.
In the spirit of leaving no one behind, our efforts to 
promote a global partnership for peace and development 
will never be complete unless we address the plight of 
people  living  under  occupation.  It  is  most  saddening 
that  some  of  us  continue  to  turn  a  blind  eye  to  the 
suffering  of  the  people  of  Palestine.  It  is  high  time 
that the United Nations fulfil its obligations and duties 
under  the  Charter  by  implementing  all  its  relevant 
resolutions, including General Assembly resolution 181 
(II)  and  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338 
(1973) and 2334 (2016).
On the African continent, it is equally disheartening 
that the people of Western Sahara have yet to exercise 
their  inalienable  right  to  self-determination.  We  call 
on the Security Council to insist on the holding of an 
independent referendum for the Sahrawi people without 
delay, in compliance with the relevant decisions of the 
African Union and the relevant resolutions of the United 
Nations. Furthermore, it is imperative and urgent for the 
Council to work tirelessly to strengthen its cooperation 
with the African Union Peace and Security Council in 
the  search  for  a  just  and  fair  solution  to  the  issue  of 
Western Sahara.
Climate change poses a threat to all of humankind, 
and  its  impact  respects  no  borders.  We  therefore  call 
for  collective  action  and  responsibility  concerning 
the  matter.  As  a  developing  country,  Zimbabwe 
seeks  support  in  the  areas  of  adaptation,  mitigation, 
technology, finance and capacity-building, as envisaged 
in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  Zimbabwe’s 
commitment to the principles of the Charter and pledge 
to  continue  to  work  with  other  nations  in  promoting 
and  strengthening  multilateralism  for  the  good  of 
humankind.  Now  more  than  ever,  the  United  Nations 
must exert its authority and work harder for peace in a 
world where might is increasingly regarded as right. Let 
us work together in harmony to ensure that the United 
Nations  and  all  its  organs  truly  serve  the  collective 
interests  of  all  Member  States.  As  global  leaders,  we 
have a shared and onerous obligation to transform our 
societies and create a more peaceful and inclusive world 
for present and future generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andrzej Duda, President of the 
Republic of Poland
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Poland.
into 
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President 
of the Republic of Poland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
18-29877
21/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
(spoke 
President  Duda 
in  Polish;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I congratulate 
Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  on  her 
election  to  that  honourable  function.  I  wish  to  assure 
her of Poland’s full support for the measures she will 
take. At the same time, I wish to express my gratitude 
to Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for his active leadership of the 
Assembly at its seventy-second session.
This  year,  Poles  celebrate 
the  centenary  of 
regaining their independence. In 1918, after 123 years 
of bondage, Poland returned to the map of Europe and 
the world. The restoration of an independent, free and 
sovereign  State  became  a  reality  mainly  due  to  three 
factors: the desire of the Polish nation to have its own 
State, the heroic sacrifice of soldiers in battle and the 
determination  of  courageous  leaders  who  convinced 
politicians  across  the  world  that,  without  a  restored 
Poland, Europe would not be just and safe. Both then 
and  today,  the  will  of  the  nations  and  of  the  political 
leaders  remains  crucial.  Both  then  and  today,  Europe 
cannot be just and safe without a sovereign Poland.
Each September, the Heads of State and Government 
meet here at United Nations Headquarters in New York 
to engage in an in-depth reflection on the most crucial 
issues affecting our globe. It is therefore we who have 
a  particular  responsibility.  It  is  we  who  are  rightly 
expected  to  be  courageous,  active,  able  to  rise  above 
divisions and determined in our search for solutions to 
the most pressing issues of the contemporary world.
Our world is full of threats. We are witnessing a very 
dynamic  development  of  the  international  situation. 
There  are  reasons  to  be  hopeful,  such  as  a  potential 
change  in  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and 
the  ongoing  de-escalation  of  tensions  there,  but  there 
are also problems that persist and remain unresolved. 
In  order  to  resolve  them,  we  undoubtedly  need  the 
cooperation  of  as  many  countries  as  possible  today. 
Two conditions must be met if we are to be effective.
First,  we  must  all  comply  with  international  law, 
which  was  the  main  theme  of  the  Polish  presidency 
of the Security Council in May. I had the privilege of 
convening  a  high-level  open  debate  at  that  time  (see 
S/PV.8262),  which  concluded  that  only  cooperation 
among  countries  within  the  rules-based  global  order 
can provide an opportunity to resolve frozen conflicts 
and  prevent  the  emergence  of  new  ones,  that  the 
rules-based  global  order  requires  strong  institutions 
to  enforce  international  law,  and  that  no  violation  of 
the  law  can  be  justified  or  distorted  through  twisted 
language definitions.
Today the map of the world is full of flashpoints. 
As  part  of  the  rules-based  global  order  that  we  are 
promoting,  I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  one 
fundamental  principle 
that  will  be  our  priority 
throughout the second year of Poland’s membership of 
the  Security  Council.  I  am  referring  to  the  sovereign 
equality  of  States,  as  provided  for  in  Article  2  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  If  we  want  to  be 
advocates of multilateralism — and the United Nations 
is, after all, its source — we must bear that principle 
in  mind.  In  other  words,  not  everyone  who  claims  to 
be a proponent of multilateralism thinks of it in terms 
of  the  equality  of  States.  One  can  say  that  there  is  a 
negative  multilateralism,  which  boils  down  to  the 
concert of Powers, a division into spheres of influence 
and the conviction that the fate of others can be decided 
without  their  participation.  Europe  and  Poland  were 
often victims of that brand of multilateralism, starting 
in  the  eighteenth  century,  continuing  throughout  the 
nineteenth  century,  and  lasting  to  the  times  of  the 
Cold War.
Multilateralism  and  the  rules-based  global  order 
are  not  just  for  the  chosen  ones.  The  same  principles 
must  apply  to  all  in  equal  measure.  Everyone  has 
equal  rights  and  proportional  obligations.  That  is 
how  I  define  the  positive  multilateralism  that  Poland 
stands  for  —  the  multilateralism  of  equal  States  and 
free nations, not the multilateralism of usurpation and 
hierarchy. We are committed to relations in which every 
State enjoys equal rights. That, however, does not imply 
a  naive  perception  of  a  world  devoid  of  differences 
among States. What it means is that States that have an 
advantage in terms of potential and power should not 
deprive others of their equal right to independence and 
sovereignty. Only when that equality is ensured can we 
fully use the potential of States for the common good 
and according to the rule of fair play. That applies both 
to  political  and  economic  relations,  since  only  if  the 
principle of the equality of States is respected can we 
talk about shared interests and enter into real alliances.
However,  the  concept  of  positive  multilateralism 
to  which  Poland  subscribes  goes  one  step  further. 
It  claims  that,  wherever  possible,  weaker  countries 
should  be  given  additional  opportunities  to  have  an 
impact in order to make the equal rights of States more 
realistic. Such opportunities can encompass additional 
22/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
voting power or additional territorial representation in 
decision-making bodies. As President of the Republic 
of  Poland,  I  am  particularly  attached  to  two  areas  of 
application of that principle: first, the awaited reform 
of  the  Security  Council,  which  we  support  and  want 
to  participate  in,  and  which  should  include  among  its 
leading themes expanding the field of equal rights and 
competences of all Council members; and secondly, a 
reform  of  the  European  Union,  which  emerged  from 
the  concept  of  positive  multilateralism  that  today  is 
being repeatedly violated, by returning it to its origins. 
Next  year,  Poland  will  organize  a  series  of  initiatives 
centred around the idea of sovereign equality. The aim 
of that effort is to win over as many supporters of our 
vision as possible. I invite one and all to participate in 
those debates.
Secondly, it is important that multilateralism serve 
a  certain  system  of  values  instead  of  being  just  one 
element of a political technology and a game of interests. 
Such a system of values is reflected in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  Negative  multilateralism,  which 
contravenes  those  values,  may  only  exacerbate  global 
problems  and  aggravate  the  situation.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  voluntary  cooperation  of  States,  equal  in 
rights, can bring lasting peace to Europe and the world. 
Every  time  an  attempt  to  create  a  concert  of  Powers 
is  born,  global  stability  is  undermined.  Whoever 
promotes  negative  multilateralism  contributes  to  the 
disintegration  of  the  global  order.  Multilateralism 
is  meant  to  be  a  commitment  to  respecting  values, 
especially  fundamental  values  such  as  respect  for 
human dignity and life. It is about values that go beyond 
the  political  order  and  are  not  politically  defined,  for 
they are the foundation of the global order.
International  relations  serve  not  only  States  but 
all humankind. Therefore, a State’s sovereignty should 
be  fundamentally  linked  to  its  responsibility  for 
ensuring respect for common norms for the good of all. 
Violations  of  those  norms  must  have  consequences. 
Whenever  leaders  violate  fundamental  human  rights, 
engage  in  torture,  persecute  their  political  opponents 
or use weapons of mass destruction, the international 
community,  including  the  Security  Council,  should 
respond swiftly, decisively and boldly.
transformation  and  a 
As a nation with unique experience of a peaceful 
democratic 
for 
fundamental  freedoms,  Poland  attaches  particular 
importance 
the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human  rights,  as  exemplified  by  my  country’s  bid 
struggle 
to 
for  membership  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
2020-2022 term. Our membership of that body, which 
is unique in the global human rights protection system, 
would  serve  as  a  natural  complement  to  our  current 
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  in  accordance 
with the fundamental United Nations triad of peace and 
security, human rights and development.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  endows  the 
Organization,  especially  the  Security  Council,  with  a 
special responsibility for addressing matters pertaining 
to international peace and security. As a non-permanent 
member of the Security Council, we deem that task to 
be of crucial importance. Poland actively supports all 
actions and initiatives aimed at preventing the use and 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their 
means  of  delivery,  as  well  as  bringing  those  who  use 
such weapons to justice.
Poland  intends  to  return  to  active  participation 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  We  have 
submitted  a  formal  application  to  the  Secretariat  in 
that regard and look forward to its positive evaluation. 
We  are  convinced  that  our  many  years  of  experience 
in that field will contribute to the peaceful resolution 
of conflicts.
Poland  is  involved  in  the  process  of  stabilizing 
the  Korean  peninsula  and  building  lasting  security 
there — not only now, in its capacity as a non-permanent 
member of the Security Council, but also as a member 
for dozens of years of the Neutral Nations Supervisory 
Commission  in  Korea.  I  am  convinced  that  our  long-
term experience within the Commission could serve to 
establish permanent foundations for peace and stability 
on the peninsula.
Given  the  extensive  experience  it  accumulated 
during  the  period  of  political  transformation,  Poland 
stands  ready  to  become  actively  engaged  in  the 
international  peace 
rebuilding  and  consolidation 
programmes  in  the  Middle  East,  wherever  it  is 
necessary, post-conflict, to restore stability and provide 
development opportunities.
At the same time, Poland regards it as its duty to 
draw  the  attention  of  the  international  community  to 
the  sources  of  threats  to  world  peace  resulting  from 
frozen conflicts, occupation and the shifting of borders 
by  force,  which  is  happening  in  Eastern  Europe.  The 
international  community  must  not  allow  a  return  to 
business  as  usual,  and  the  actions  of  the  aggressors 
should be met with an appropriate response.
18-29877
23/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
In December, Poland will have the honour to host the 
twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (COP 24) in the city of Katowice. The primary 
goal of that meeting is to finalize work on the provisions 
implementing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
A complete and effective implementation of the Paris 
Agreement is inextricably linked with the attainment of 
the Sustainable Development Goals. Therefore, global 
climate action should incorporate the economic, social 
and  environmental  dimensions,  and  be  conducive  to 
stopping  global  warming  and  eradicating  the  most 
serious problems of the modern world.
including 
international 
The  implementation  package  to  be  adopted  in 
Katowice  provides  an  essential  basis  for  action  to 
be  taken  by  State  entities  and  non-governmental 
organizations, 
financial 
institutions,  the  private  sector,  local  authorities  and 
civil society organizations. Only provisions applicable 
in  the  long-term  and  accepted  by  all  actors  are  able 
to  guarantee  transparency,  legal  security  and  the 
sustainability of rules, which are indispensable to the 
implementation  of  the  adopted  obligations  and  for 
strengthening global ambitions.
COP 24 will be launched at a summit of leaders, to 
be held on 3 and 4 December, and offers an excellent 
opportunity  to  express  our  common  and  responsible 
political will. It will also send a clear message to the 
world  that  our  efforts  are  aimed  at  securing  a  safe 
future for all. Once again, I wish to invite all Member 
States to attend the Katowice summit and ensure a high 
turnout for the event.
recovery  of 
The  centenary  of  Poland’s 
its 
independence leads us to reflect on the fate of Europe 
and  the  world  and  on  my  country’s  difficult  road  to 
freedom and independence. It also provides a reason to 
look to the future and an inspiration to sensibly shape 
our  common  international  reality  based  on  historical 
experiences,  values  and  aspirations.  I  encourage  all 
Member  States  to  collaborate  even  more  closely  on 
initiatives aimed at achieving the objectives that guide 
the  Organization.  Only  decisions  taken  jointly  by 
political leaders can effectively address the challenges 
faced by a globalized world.
Poland  subscribes  to  the  view  that  our  common 
future  requires  a  strong  and  effective  international 
community that will better accommodate the needs of 
humankind. That, however, will depend mainly on us, 
since  the  United  Nations  is  not  an  abstract  entity  but 
our common achievement. It is up to us how effective 
we  will  be  in  using  it  for  the  sake  of  building  peace 
and ensuring justice and sustainable development — in 
other  words,  building  a  better  world,  worthy  of  the 
twenty-first century, for us and, first and foremost, for 
future generations, our children and our grandchildren.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Poland for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President 
of the Portuguese Republic
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Portuguese Republic.
Mr.  Marcelo  Rebelo  de  Sousa,  President  of  the 
Portuguese Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, 
President of the Portuguese Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Rebelo de Sousa (spoke in Portuguese; 
English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): 
I  convey  very  special  congratulations  to  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  to  preside 
over  the  General  Assembly.  I  congratulate  her  on  her 
personality and career, on the priorities she has defined, 
on  the  progress  she  represents  in  gender  equality  at 
the  United  Nations  and  on  the  informal  interactive 
dialogue, which is a sign of the increased transparency 
of the General Assembly.
Portugal  welcomes  and  reaffirms  its  full  support 
for  the  priorities  the  Secretary-General  has  set  and 
the  actions  he  has  pursued  during  his  lucid,  dynamic 
and  exceptional  mandate.  Multilateralism,  based  on 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations, 
the  reform  of  the  Organization,  conflict  prevention, 
peacekeeping  and  the  maintenance  of  peace,  concern 
for  migration  and  refugees,  combating  terrorism  and 
international crime, the oceans and maritime security, 
climate  change,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  gender  equality  and  support  for  our 
24/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
young people are all aimed at the permanent upholding 
of human rights.
The  key  is  always  strengthened  multilateralism. 
That  is  why  we  do  not  understand  —  and  in  fact 
deplore — the use of unilateralism as a way to disinvest 
in  international  organizations.  It  represents  political 
short-sightedness  that  runs  the  risk  of  making  us 
repeat  the  mistakes  that  were  made  almost  a  century 
ago.  United  Nations  reform  requires  the  commitment 
of all Member States. Maintaining the status quo is a 
way  of  gutting  multilateralism  and,  in  the  absence  of 
prevention, multiplying risks and conflicts, resulting in 
underdevelopment  and  the  violation  of  human  rights. 
And if we fail to reform the Security Council through a 
broad-based consensus we ignore the geopolitics of the 
twenty-first  century,  which  at  the  very  least  requires 
the  inclusion  of  representatives  of  the  continent  of 
Africa, Brazil and India.
Portugal  is  a  participant  in  conflict-prevention, 
peacebuilding, peacekeeping and institutional capacity-
building  operations  in  nine  United  Nations  missions, 
six  of  which  are  in  Africa.  I  would  particularly  like 
to  highlight  our  presence  in  the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
the Central African Republic and in the United Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission 
in Mali.
With  respect 
to  migration  and  refugees,  we 
need  to  understand  the  causes  of  the  growth  in  mass 
movements  of  people,  and  we  need  dialogue  among 
societies  of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  Portugal 
unreservedly  supports  the  global  compact  for  safe, 
orderly  and  regular  migration,  the  global  compact  on 
refugees  and  the  promotion  of  the  right  to  education 
in  emergency  situations.  We  have  welcomed  and  will 
continue  to  welcome  migrants,  refugees  and  other 
displaced  persons.  Under  our  former  President  Jorge
Sampaio,  my  country  launched  the  Global  Platform 
for Syrian Students and calls for the broadest possible 
participation  in  the  Rapid  Response  Mechanism  for 
Higher Education in Emergencies.
The fight against terrorism has led to the creation 
of  the  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism,  the  first  United 
Nations  High-level  Conference  of  Heads  of  Counter-
Terrorism  Agencies  of  Member  States  and  a  sixth 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
Review (resolution 72/284). The guarantee of justice for 
victims of serious international crimes is now one of the 
tasks of the International Criminal Court, which began 
to consider the crime of aggression in 2017, following a 
decision in which Portugal played an active role. With 
the support of more Member States, the Rome Statute, 
which created the Court, is expected to move towards 
universal adoption.
With  regard  to  multilateralism  and  international 
law  in  the  area  of  oceans  and  maritime  security, 
Portugal  is  actively  involved  in  preparations  for  the 
second United Nations Ocean Conference, in 2020, and 
stands  ready  to  assume  all  responsibilities  related  to 
that. Maritime security is needed in places such as the 
coast of Somalia or the Gulf of Guinea, where Portugal 
is  part  of  the  European  Union  Naval  Force  Operation 
Atalanta within the framework of the European Union, 
and  also  in  the  Yaoundé  process,  together  with  the 
African  Union  and  the  countries  of  the  region.  And 
we  are  going  further,  creating  a  centre  in  the  Azores 
as  a  platform  for  various  international  organizations 
working to protect the oceans. Global governance of the 
oceans,  supported  by  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  is  a  just  cause.  For 
us, those are structural issues that we do not change to 
suit short-term trends and actors. We regard a healthy 
environment as a fundamental right; we support carbon 
neutrality  by  2050  and,  with  Lebanon,  we  are  jointly 
chairing the ad hoc open-ended working group with a 
view to drafting a global pact for the environment.
There  are  basically  two  different  views  of  the 
world. One is short-term. It is unilateral or minilateral, 
protectionist and focused on populist domestic discourse. 
It  minimizes  the  importance  of  multilateralism  in 
anything to do with sustainable development, is prone 
to climate change denial, opposes global compacts on 
migration  and  refugees  and  is  interested  in  conflict 
prevention  and  peacekeeping  on  the  rare  occasions 
when and where they suit it, and they are more likely 
to suit it when the emphasis is on economic rather than 
political  power.  The  opposing  view,  which  we  share, 
is multilateral, open, favourable to the quest for global 
governance, committed to sustainable development and 
respectful of international law, the Charter of the United 
Nations and human rights as values and principles, not 
as  means  or  conveniences.  We  are  confident  that,  in 
the medium to long term, that view will prevail, as it 
has  in  the  European  Union,  which  has  given  Europe 
its longest period of peace in living memory and high 
levels of welfare and social protection.
18-29877
25/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
International Law Commission, it is an appropriate time 
to  call  for  consensus  on  the  adoption  of  the  biennial 
resolution  on  the  moratorium  on  the  death  penalty, 
which is to be submitted to the General Assembly.
Our  view  of  the  global  situation  and  the  role  of 
the  United  Nations,  which,  as  I  said,  is  in  complete 
agreement  with  the  view  of  the  Secretary-General, 
is  based  on  our  positions  on  those  so-called  regional 
questions that are global in scope. Let me now comment 
on some that are of particular relevance to Portugal.
We salute the strengthening of the Community of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries  (CPLP)  —  currently 
chaired by Cabo Verde, to be followed by Angola — whose 
contributions  to  stability  and  development  I  want  to 
highlight.  The  CPLP  enjoys  an  excellent  cooperative 
relationship  with  the  United  Nations  and  pursues  the 
goal  of  seeing  the  Portuguese  language,  one  of  the 
most widely spoken in the world, adopted as an official 
language of the United Nations.
We  also  commend  the  steps  that  have  been  taken 
in  Guinea-Bissau  in  preparation  for  elections  in 
November.  We  would  like  to  highlight  the  increasing 
importance  of  the  African  Union  and  its  key  uniting 
role for peace and sustainable development, its growing 
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  and  the  historic 
step of the signing of the Joint Declaration of Peace and 
Friendship between Ethiopia and Eritrea. It is our hope 
that  the  elections  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo will be held in a safe, free and fair manner and 
that the results be respected by all.
The 
the  prospects  for 
important  developments  on 
the  Korean 
peninsula  are  opening  up 
its 
complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization, 
demonstrating  the  commitment  and  courage  of  the 
parties involved, the contributions of regional partners 
of  the  United  Nations  and,  above  all,  the  role  of 
diplomacy in bringing about world peace and security.
We  note  the  signing  of  the  maritime-boundary 
treaty  between  Australia  and  Timor-Leste  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Secretary-General,  confirming  the 
effectiveness  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
through  conciliation  under 
the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea.
political, social and economic instability. In Libya, the 
international community must come together to assist 
with  the  humanitarian  and  security  situation  and  in 
establishing  a  robust  State.  Yemen  remains  the  scene 
of  one  of  the  worst  humanitarian  crises  today,  where 
the  most  vulnerable  —  women  and  children  —  are 
especially  badly  affected.  Only  through  a  negotiated 
political solution mediated by the United Nations and 
with respect for international humanitarian law can we 
reverse that increasingly tragic situation.
is 
tragic 
the  humanitarian  crisis 
Mr.  Bahr  Aluloom  (Iraq),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Equally 
in 
Syria,  with  one  of  the  largest  refugee  flows  ever 
seen in the region or beyond. In that case, too, only a 
substantive, inclusive political solution mediated by the 
United  Nations  can  ensure  effective  and  broad-based 
international support for reconstruction. The fact is that 
stability and peace in the Middle East will be possible 
only  through  the  resolution  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict.  Common  sense  demands  the  resumption  of 
a  credible  negotiation  process  that  addresses  all  the 
final-status issues, including the question of Jerusalem, 
and can lead to a viable two-State solution based on the 
coexistence of Israel and Palestine in peace and security.
As the Secretary-General suggested yesterday, true 
patriotism  and  cosmopolitanism  are  complementary. 
Portugal  believes  that  multilateral  action,  political 
dialogue and diplomatic wisdom are the only possible 
path  to  harmonious  coexistence  among  nations  and 
peoples, and that very short-term perspectives, however 
appealing they may seem, are just a flash in the pan that 
will not last and will not solve the world’s true problems.
As Nelson Mandela said,
(spoke in English)
“A  fundamental  concern  for  others  in  our 
individual  and  community  lives  would  go  a  long 
way  in  making  the  world  the  better  place  we  so 
passionately dreamt of.”
That  is  the  Organization’s  noble  mission;  it  is  also 
the  reason  for  Portugal’s  deep  commitment  to  the 
United Nations. The United Nations represents neither 
a  luxury  nor  a  short-sighted  trend,  but  rather  a  long-
lasting universal need.
Unfortunately, some parts of the Middle East and 
the  Maghreb  continue  to  show  signs  of  long-term 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
26/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
of  the  Portuguese  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Marcelo  Rebelo  de  Sousa,  President  of  the 
Portuguese  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Salvador Sánchez Cerén, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Salvador 
Sánchez Cerén, President of the Republic of El Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sánchez  Cerén  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés, 
our  Latin  American  sister,  on  her  election  to  preside 
over the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. 
I  also  want  to  pay  tribute  to  Kofi  Annan,  whose 
commendable work at the helm of the United Nations 
left  us  a  great  legacy  in  the  defence  of  peace  and  a 
fairer  international  economic  order.  And  I  would  like 
to express the condolences of El Salvador on the recent 
death of the President of the Republic of Viet Nam, Tran 
Dai Quang. We also want to express our solidarity with 
the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  United  States 
for the effects of Hurricane Florence and those in the 
Philippines and China who have been affected by the 
devastating climate events in their countries.
This  year  brings  us  together  under  the  theme 
“Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people: 
global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”. It is our 
responsibility to reach out to all, without discrimination 
of any kind, with intelligent and effective public policies 
and  tools  that  meet  the  needs  and  aspirations  of  our 
people. That has been a priority for El Salvador during 
my Administration. The social protection programmes 
we  have  promoted  were  decisive  in  lifting  more  than 
400,000 people out of poverty between 2015 and 2017. 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  has 
become a crucial reference point for the implementation 
of  our  national  policies.  We  were  among  the  earliest 
countries  to  adapt  the  2030  Agenda  to  its  purpose  of 
mitigating  the  consequences  of  decades  of  serious 
social  inequality  and  repairing  the  State’s  historical 
lack of interest in the needs and demands of the people.
El  Salvador  joins  the  call  of  Secretary-General 
António Guterres regarding the urgent need to close the 
gaps in the financing of the Sustainable Development 
Goals.  To  that  end,  we  have  allocated  nearly  50  per 
cent  of  the  national  budget  to  social  development,  an 
unprecedented  investment  for  my  country.  But  even 
with  all  of  our  efforts,  our  national  financing  will 
not  be  sufficient.  The  international  community  must 
also  honour  its  commitments  in  this  regard.  Those 
contributions must respond to a comprehensive, long-
term perspective in order to ensure inclusive economic 
growth and end poverty for the millions of people who 
are suffering the worst consequences of climate change 
and  the  unfair  distribution  of  wealth.  In  the  case  of 
middle-income countries such as El Salvador, the key 
lies  in  supporting  and  supplementing  our  financing 
capacities, particularly from public sources.
Our country is dealing with multiple vulnerabilities. 
We  recently  suffered  one  of  the  longest  droughts 
in  our  history,  a  reality  that  climate  change  has 
inflicted  on  us.  That  obliges  us  to  invest  additional 
resources in order to guarantee families food security 
and  keep  food  prices  stable.  If  we  are  to  tackle  that 
situation, it is crucial to ensure that the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  continues 
to be implemented and the current Green Climate Fund 
crisis  is  resolved.  As  a  country  that  hardly  pollutes 
globally  but  suffers  the  effects  of  climate  change 
caused by others, El Salvador urgently needs access to 
financing for climate-change mitigation and adaptation 
action  that  will  improve  its  population’s  security  and 
resilience. Our adoption in Bonn of a global initiative 
at  the  twenty-third  Conference  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change has enabled 
us to move forward with the large-scale restoration of 
our ecosystems and to become an example of a small 
country  with  limited  financial  resources  capable  of 
protecting  its  environment.  I  am  deeply  grateful  to 
Mr.  Erik  Solheim,  Executive  Director  of  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Programme,  for  supporting  our 
proposal to declare 2021-2030 a United Nations decade of 
ecosystem restoration. We invite the General Assembly 
to  consider  this  initiative  aimed  at  coordinating  our 
efforts  to  counter  the  accelerated  loss  of  forests  and 
18-29877
27/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
the degradation of soils and ecosystems, which have a 
negative effect on the well-being of 3.2 billion people.
As one of the Heads of State who in 2015 adopted 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  at  a 
memorable  and  historic  General  Assembly  meeting 
(see A/70/PV.4), today I can affirm that we have made 
great  progress  in  combating  poverty  and  reducing 
inequalities. My Government has given priority to social 
protection programmes through development strategies 
that enabled us to reduce poverty by 10 per cent between 
2009  and  2017.  Through  our  critical  national  literacy 
programme  we  have  declared  100  municipalities  free 
of  illiteracy,  including  San  Salvador,  which  became 
the  third  Central  American  capital  to  record  that 
educational  achievement.  That  effort  continues  with 
our  firm  commitment  to  achieving  a  literate  country, 
a  noble  task  in  which  we  have  the  generous  support 
of more than 50,000 young volunteers, advocates and 
other sectors of society. The support of the people and 
Government  of  our  sister  Republic  of  Cuba  has  been 
essential to that success. Its Yo Sí Puedo campaign is a 
model for the eradication of illiteracy to Latin America 
and the world.
As  part  of  our  defence  of  women’s  rights,  we 
have  developed  a  strategy  for  the  prevention  of  the 
killing  of  women  and  sexual  violence  that  involves 
all  Government  institutions  in  empowering  women 
and  ensuring  that  they  can  live  free  of  violence.  The 
strategy, which has been strengthened by the Spotlight 
Initiative  with  support  from  the  European  Union  and 
the  United  Nations,  seeks  to  eradicate  social  and 
institutional  practices  that  are  damaging  to  women’s 
dignity. We have also strengthened the internationally 
recognized Ciudad Mujer programme, which has been 
implemented  in  several  countries  and  has  provided 
care  to  more  than  1.8  million  women  through  health 
services, defence of women’s rights, skills training and 
financing  for  economic  projects.  On  the  health  front, 
the implementation of our national strategic plan for the 
reduction of maternal mortality stands out, as well as 
our national health surveillance plan. Both have helped 
El Salvador reduce its maternal mortality rate, which in 
2017 dropped to 31 per 100,000 live births.
In  our  pursuit  of  those  urgent  efforts  we  have 
the  spiritual  guidance,  the  message  of  peace  and  the 
promotion of social justice of blessed Archbishop Óscar 
Arnulfo Romero, who on 14 October will be canonized 
by  Pope  Francis,  a  historic  event  that  our  people  are 
celebrating with profound joy and hope.
A  topic  of  special  relevance  at  the  global  and 
regional levels is migration. My country looks forward 
to  welcoming  the  prompt  adoption  of  the  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  and 
the  global  compact  on  refugees  as  clear  examples  of 
the leading role of the United Nations in the search for 
a new global consensus. We must approach migration 
from  a  human  rights  perspective  in  order  to  realize 
its  benefits  and  address  the  challenges  it  represents. 
This  year  many  migrant  families,  mainly  from  the 
northern-triangle  countries  of  Central  America,  have 
been dealing with the difficult and painful situation of 
separation, which has caused irreparable psychological 
and emotional damage to the children and adolescents 
involved. We believe that the best interests of children 
and  their  families  should  be  respected,  regardless 
of  their  immigration  status.  I  reiterate  El  Salvador’s 
request  to  the  United  States  authorities  to  speed  up 
the  reunification  process  for  minors  entering  their 
country at its southern border, whether or not they were 
accompanied by their families.
In  recent  years,  El  Salvador  has  worked  to  create 
better  living  conditions  through  the  promotion  of 
investment, the development of human capital, security, 
the  prevention  of  violence  and  the  fight  against 
criminal  trafficking  networks  and  drug  trafficking, 
among  other  initiatives,  actions  that  have  enabled  us 
to reduce irregular migratory flows of Salvadorans to 
the  United  States  by  60  per  cent.  El  Salvador  rejects 
the  criminalization  of  migrants,  since  experience 
has  shown  that  their  industriousness  contributes  to 
the  economic,  social  and  cultural  development  of 
destination societies. Our compatriots protected by the 
Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Action 
for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programmes, who for 
years have contributed to progress in the United States, 
are  a  clear  example  of  that.  As  a  Government  we  are 
working to make sure that the competent United States 
authorities  guarantee  the  legal  instruments  required 
to  provide  the  population  in  the  United  States  under 
TPS  and  DACA  with  greater  migratory  stability  and 
permanent residence.
the 
As  a  founding  State  of  the  United  Nations  and  a 
country  respectful  of  international  law,  El  Salvador 
recognizes 
in 
addressing  such  global  challenges  as  peace,  a  more 
just  economic  order,  climate  change,  migration  and 
sustainable  development.  In  that  context,  we  stress 
the  need  for  constructive  dialogue,  concerted  action 
importance  of  multilateralism 
28/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
and  cooperation  and  the  strengthening  of  integration 
mechanisms and regional alliances. In the face of crises 
and conflicts affecting the world, it is important to give 
priority to dialogue and political solutions. That was our 
approach on 30 June in Santo Domingo, at the Meeting 
of  Presidents  of  the  Central  American  Integration 
System  countries,  where  we  stated  our  position  on 
the  situation  in  our  sister  republic  of  Nicaragua.  We 
reiterate  the  call  for  dialogue  and  consensus  as  the 
necessary paths for the construction and maintenance 
of peace, with respect for the Constitution and the rule 
of law.
In order for the international community to make 
steady  progress  towards  development,  we  must  put 
an  end  to  unilateral  measures  such  as  the  unjust  and 
anachronistic  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  by  the  United  States. 
That  coercive  measure  must  end  because  it  causes 
incalculable harm to the Cuban people. The same goes 
for the economic siege against the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela, which affects its international payments 
and its ability to obtain goods and services, as well as its 
people’s living conditions. We stand for respect for the 
self-determination  and  sovereignty  of  the  Venezuelan 
people  and  condemn  any  external  interference  or 
threats of military intervention.
I thank the United Nations system and Secretary-
General António Guterres for the valuable support they 
provide to our development programmes for the well-
being and tranquillity of Salvadoran families. We are 
also  grateful  for  their  assistance  in  and  support  for  a 
national  dialogue  process  towards  the  development 
of  new  national  agreements,  a  continuation  of  the 
peace  accords  that  we  signed  in  January  1992.  I 
reaffirm  El  Salvador’s  commitment  to  helping  make 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people 
and  to  global  leadership,  with  a  view  to  advancing 
humankind’s aspiration to achieve peaceful, equitable 
and sustainable societies. My Government continues to 
work tirelessly to that end. We are confident that with 
the commitments we have undertaken to fulfil the 2030 
Agenda, we are moving forward with the building of a 
united, prosperous and peaceful El Salvador.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of El Salvador for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of 
the Republic of Nauru
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Nauru.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Baron 
Divavesi Waqa, President of the Republic of Nauru, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Waqa: It is an honour to be here for the 
opening  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third 
session.  On  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Nauru,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa 
Garcés on her recent assumption of the presidency of 
the General Assembly and to thank Mr. Miroslav Lajčák 
for his exceptional work as our outgoing President.
The theme chosen for this year’s debate — “Making 
the United Nations relevant to all people” — is deeply 
resonant  for  this  representative  of  a  small  island 
developing  State  (SIDS).  It  is  so  self-evident  that  it 
borders on cliché to state that some communities have 
not benefited from the current global economic system. 
Yet it bears repeating again and again lest those places 
be  forgotten  entirely.  The  Republic  of  Nauru  is  one 
such place, and it is to the United Nations that we look 
for assistance. However, to be responsive to the needs 
of my country and many others like it, we must address 
a  systemic  bias  within  the  United  Nations  and  start 
thinking small.
The  population  of  Nauru  is  a  little  over  10,000. 
Let  me  try  to  capture  some  of  the  challenges  we 
encounter in accessing the support available from the 
United Nations by sharing a story from my days as the 
country’s  Director  of  Education.  Eager  to  participate 
in  an  education-data  tracking  programme  offered  by 
UNESCO, I logged onto its website and began to input 
the  required  information  for  registering  my  country. 
The  first  question  was  straightforward:  number  of 
primary schools. I typed in the number 6 — not 600, 
18-29877
29/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
not 6,000, but “6” — and the response read “error”. I 
moved on to the second question: number of teachers. I 
typed in 59 — “error” again. I was not able to register 
for  that  promising  education  programme.  But  I  did 
learn an important lesson that day. It is not easy to gain 
access to support from the United Nations system when 
one is representing a small country.
Our  unique  challenges  as  SIDS  are  widely 
recognized. Some are inherent in the geophysical nature 
of  the  islands  we  inhabit,  such  as  a  small  land  mass, 
limited  natural  resources,  geographic  isolation  and 
vulnerability to natural disasters. No less important are 
the challenges imposed on us by the global economic 
system,  which  was  not  designed  with  our  countries 
in  mind.  Our  small  populations  and  production  base 
do not yield the economies of scale sought by private 
investors.  Volatility  in  commodity  markets  has  an 
outsize  impact  on  our  fiscal  planning.  The  negative 
externalities  of  consumption-based  economic  growth 
have destroyed the health of our oceans and the safety 
of our climate.
Meanwhile, 
corporate 
and 
translate 
consolidation 
a 
liberalized  global  financial  system 
into 
fewer and fewer opportunities for small enterprises to 
develop  domestically.  That  leaves  us  with  extremely 
underdeveloped  economies,  overly  reliant  on  one  or 
two  key  sectors  that  are  often  highly  vulnerable  to 
changing global market trends or shifts in the political 
priorities of our development partners. SIDS typically 
score extremely high on economic vulnerability indices 
for that reason, and Nauru is no different. While today 
we may be considered a middle-income country under 
certain  metrics,  our  economic  situation  could  change 
dramatically  for  the  worse  overnight  owing  to  forces 
that are completely out of our hands.
Those  observations  are  not  new.  We  have  been 
grappling with such challenges for decades. But in the 
face of climate change, developing effective strategies 
for dealing with them has become much more urgent. I 
think it is fair to say that the logic of the entire global 
economic  system  is  driven  by  a  relentless  pursuit  of 
larger and larger scale. In the name of efficiency, private 
enterprises expand operations in places with large pools 
of  cheap  labour  or  vast  reserves  of  resources.  They 
merge with competitors to increase market share. They 
seek out the greatest profit centres and abandon those 
that underperform. Talk to any newly minted graduate 
with a master’s degree in business administration about 
a  new  business  idea,  and  the  first  question  he  or  she 
will ask is “Does it scale?” I dare say that that logic has 
permeated  the  United  Nations  system.  Why  design  a 
programme to help a country of 10,000 people when one 
can theoretically help 10 million? Why wade through all 
the loan paperwork to replace a small diesel generator 
when  the  same  number  of  documents  can  mobilize 
funding to transform a much larger energy system? If 
my country is too small to even warrant inclusion in a 
simple online database, where does that leave us?
For 
the  smallest  countries, 
the  micro-States, 
conventional pathways to development are not available 
to us. We simply cannot offer the profit potential that 
private investors seek. We must therefore look to public 
institutions  —  to  the  United  Nations  —  to  create  an 
environment  in  which  the  rest  of  us  can  grow  and 
prosper. The Republic of Nauru cannot be treated as an 
“error”. When viewed through the lens of conventional 
economics, our lack of scale is our problem. If we are 
to address the challenges of small islands, therefore, we 
have to abandon the conventional wisdom. We have to 
think  about  scale  differently.  Once  we  take  that  leap, 
our small size can become our greatest advantage.
Earlier  this  month,  Nauru  had  the  honour  to  host 
the forty-ninth Pacific Islands Forum Leaders meeting. 
The theme of the meeting — “Building a strong Pacific: 
our  people,  our  islands,  our  will”  —  was  chosen 
to  highlight  the  uniqueness  of  our  region  and  the 
imperative that we chart our own course to sustainable 
development. Traditional and new partners alike joined 
us at the Pacific region’s first round table on Sustainable 
Development  Goal  17  to  announce  new  initiatives  in 
the  areas  of  energy,  health  care  and  protection  of  the 
oceans. The event was successful because our partners 
recognized  the  opportunities  in  our  small  islands. 
The  countries  that  demonstrated  no  respect  for  the 
sovereignty  of  the  small  and  vulnerable  or  for  the 
leaders  of  the  Pacific  and  the  regional  process  were 
respectfully asked to yield the floor to those that did.
Small  can  be  nimble.  Small  means  that  modest 
resources  can  have  a  transformative  impact.  When 
our sustainability metrics are aggregated with those of 
the rest of the world, we become nothing more than a 
rounding  error.  But  when  joined  by  partners  that  are 
prepared to understand our constraints, we can become 
living  proof  that  a  better,  more  sustainable  way  of 
life  is  possible.  With  regard  to  renewable  energy,  for 
example,  a  few  small  islands  have  made  enormous 
progress  in  the  past  few  years  and  are  looking  to 
achieve 100 per cent renewable-energy systems within 
30/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
a  decade,  a  tremendous  achievement.  That  is  a  much 
more  difficult  undertaking  in  large  countries,  which 
must  serve  population  centres  spread  across  a  much 
wider  geographical  area,  navigate  a  minefield  of 
politically powerful incumbents and bear much higher 
financial costs.
We can see some of our Pacific island neighbours 
racing  to  the  front,  with  the  rest  of  us  clamouring  to 
follow their lead. We are ready to seize the opportunity 
presented  by  cheap  solar  energy  and  free  ourselves 
from  the  expensive  burden  of  fossil  fuels.  Capacity 
and  resource  constraints  are  the  only  things  holding 
us back. My Government’s own analysis puts the cost 
of moving Nauru to 100 per cent renewable energy at 
$63 million. For a modest investment, the world would 
have visible evidence that the future we want — a clean, 
zero-carbon society  — is well within our grasp. That 
transformation  would  also  dramatically  improve  our 
fiscal  outlook,  providing  a  much  stronger  foundation 
for progress in other areas of sustainable development.
Just  because  the  task  is  smaller  does  not  mean 
it  is  easy.  But  there  are  simple  steps  to  be  taken  that 
would  dramatically  improve  our  situation.  Financial 
and capacity-building resources need to be made more 
accessible  for  our  capacity-constrained  countries. 
Streamlined and harmonized application and reporting 
procedures  would  significantly  alleviate  one  of  our 
largest  hurdles.  In  addition,  new  funding  approaches, 
such  as  direct-access  modalities  and  direct  budgetary 
support,  seem  to  yield  much  better  results  in  small 
countries.  Adequate  financing  must  be  available  for 
basic infrastructure, not just for the development fads 
of  the  moment.  The  Pacific  region’s  partnership  with 
the Government of Italy has been a resounding success 
because  it  has  been  structured  with  those  issues  in 
mind. The model works because it regards the Pacific 
islands as the primary drivers of their own development. 
When working with the Government of Italy we know 
that the tremendous respect that they have shown us has 
nothing to do with the size of our countries.
Building  a  more  inclusive  United  Nations  also 
requires addressing the most urgent global challenges, 
which  include  the  security  implications  of  climate 
change.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
call  I  made  in  July  in  the  Security  Council  for  the 
appointment of a special representative of the Secretary-
General  on  climate  and  security  (see  S/PV.8307).  We 
are already seeing dangerous effects on our countries 
and communities, with the most vulnerable among us 
bearing  the  greatest  burden.  A  special  representative, 
supported by a well-resourced staff, is needed to help 
us start managing climate risks more effectively. That 
is a critical gap in the United Nations system that must 
be filled immediately.
Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people 
must  include  the  people  of  Taiwan.  The  treatment  of 
the people of Taiwan should be equal to that of other 
nations. The United Nations should resolve the serious 
issue  of  the  exclusion  of  Taiwan’s  23  million  people 
from the United Nations system. The Preamble to the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  clearly  states  that  the 
Organization’s mission is
“to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, 
in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person,  in 
the equal rights of men and women and of nations 
large and small”.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Governments 
of  Australia,  Taiwan,  New  Zealand,  Japan,  India,  the 
Russian  Federation,  Italy,  Israel  and  Cuba,  as  well  as 
the European Union for their assistance to Nauru. We 
value their friendship very much and look forward to 
our continued collaboration.
We applaud the President for choosing to promote 
a  theme  of  inclusion  in  this  debate.  In  the  pursuit  of 
scale,  it  is  easy  to  forget  that  many  of  the  smallest 
and  most  vulnerable  often  fall  through  the  cracks. 
My Government stands ready to work with her during 
the  seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
build a United Nations that brings peace and equitable 
and  sustainable  societies  to  all  people.  God  bless  the 
Republic of Nauru. God bless the United Nations. God 
bless us all.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Nauru  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia.
18-29877
31/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President  of 
the Plurinational State of Bolivia, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  on  her  recent 
election to her important post.
The men, women and children of every continent 
in  the  world  throughout  our  shared  home,  planet 
Earth, hope that our deliberations will bring concrete 
improvements to their lives. The world sees its leaders 
meet  once  a  year  and  continues  to  hope  that  we  will 
collaborate  in  complying  fully  with  our  mandate  to 
build  a  more  just  society  for  all.  When  the  United 
Nations  was  created,  after  the  Second  World  War,  it 
established clear purposes that now serve as a measure 
of our triumphs, failures, threats and opportunities. We 
sought  to  maintain  international  peace,  security  and 
justice, prevent and eliminate threats and suppress acts 
of aggression. We sought to resolve our disagreements 
by  peaceful  means  and  to  foster  friendly  relations 
among  nations  based  on  respect  for  the  principles  of 
equal rights and the self-determination of peoples.
The theme of the general debate this year — “Making 
the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful, 
equitable  and  sustainable  societies”  —  allows  me  to 
cite a practical provision of the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  is  that 
Member States
“shall settle their international disputes by peaceful 
means  in  such  a  manner  that  international  peace 
and security, and justice, are not endangered”.
that 
international  disagreement 
law.  The  Court  asserted  its  jurisdiction  to  hear  and 
resolve 
in  2015, 
whose  hemispheric  interest  was  recognized  by  the 
Organization  of  American  States  because  it  involves 
two  neighbours  and  undermines  efforts  to  achieve 
the  regional  integration  of  peoples.  Bolivia’s  goal  is 
the  good-faith  achievement,  together  with  Chile,  of  a 
durable, sustainable and mutually satisfactory solution 
to  a  100-year  conflict  that  has  put  two  neighbouring 
countries at odds.
Its  worst  consequence  is  that  Bolivia  has  been 
a  landlocked  country,  with  its  people  and  the  State 
deprived of access to the Pacific Ocean, a state of affairs 
that  has  severely  affected  our  human  and  economic 
development and continues to do so. Bolivia’s maritime 
suit  is  related  to  its  understanding  of  diplomacy  as 
working for the people, their life and their right to access 
to the sea and its vast resources, the largest setting for 
life on the planet and the shared heritage of humankind 
and its peoples. Human beings are supported by the sea. 
Life  on  Earth  is  not  possible  without  water,  and  it  is 
not possible to think about the lives of people without 
access to the sea. Not only is it a door to trade, markets 
and modern transactions, it is also a window on other 
peoples and on life itself.
We hope that the legal proceedings that have been 
brought before the International Court of Justice will be 
recognized and will help to bring the parties closer to 
the start of productive negotiations. We also hope that to 
the extent possible, with the support of the international 
community, it will help us to reach a genuine agreement 
that  honestly  outlines  the  causes  and  effects  of  the 
conflict  that  has  driven  us  apart  for  more  than  a 
century. The agreement should also critically examine 
the  inadequacy  of  the  agreements  and  attempts  to 
overcome Bolivia’s landlocked status, while validating 
and illustrating the reciprocal advantages of timely and 
effective  agreements  in  the  context  of  the  principles 
of regional and global integration and reconciling two 
peoples engaged in an absurd conflict, often for reasons 
that are alien to their values of brotherly coexistence.
I  am  referring  here  to  the  proceedings  that  Bolivia 
has  brought  before  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
in  The  Hague,  whose  decision  will  be  announced 
next  week.  The  case  deals  with  Chile’s  obligation 
to  negotiate  with  Bolivia  in  an  effective  and  timely 
manner  on  sovereign  access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  It 
tests  the  shared  responsibility  of  two  States  to  agree 
on just solutions within the framework of international 
The  conflict  between  Bolivia  and  Chile  over 
access to the Pacific Ocean is not the result of a recent 
or  passing  political  or  electoral  issue.  It  goes  back  to 
the very origins of our territorial dispute at the end of 
the  nineteenth  century,  when  the  interests  of  foreign 
corporations  seeking  to  exploit  the  natural  resources 
of the Atacama area, such as guano, potassium nitrate, 
silver and copper, launched a hostile, asymmetric and 
32/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
expansionist  campaign  in  the  region.  The  landlocked 
status  imposed  on  Bolivia  could  not  be  remedied 
through  treaties  that  proved  insufficient  or  through 
attempted agreements and failed commitments.
The Bolivian people’s ongoing claim is more than a 
century old, both at the regional level and in multilateral 
organizations.  Bolivia  is  certain  that  whatever  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  decides,  it  will  mark  a 
new era in the relationship between Bolivia and Chile 
so that we can face the future with righteousness and 
a  determination  to  explore  mutually  acceptable  and 
lasting  solutions.  Our  peoples  and  their  leaders  must 
unite their desire for peace and their political will in a 
single voice if they are to identify feasible, functional 
solutions that make them feel that they have won rather 
than  lost.  Practical  solutions,  forged  by  creative  and 
effective diplomacy, have been found to even the oldest 
and most complex controversies in the world.
The  Governments  and  the  peoples  of  Bolivia 
and  Chile  must  wait  patiently  for  a  legal  decision 
that,  beyond  its  formal  aspects,  can  open  the  door 
to  a  new  era  of  peace,  justice  and  brotherhood.  Such 
an  opportunity  deserves  the  attention  of  the  States 
Members of the United Nations, since the decision of the 
Organization’s main legal body to assume jurisdiction 
over,  hear  and  adjudicate  a  dispute,  and,  in  this  case, 
to  suggest  parameters  for  a  possible  solution,  will 
set  a  precedent  for  fairer  societies  that  are  willing  to 
share the responsibility for resolving their differences. 
That would be a contrast to the past, when domination 
by  winning  wars  was  all  that  counted.  That  is  the 
significance of our case in the context of the theme of 
the seventy-third session of the General Assembly.
We have frequently warned the Assembly about the 
many crises facing humankind and life as a whole on our 
planet. Unfortunately, every year we attend this event 
to  confirm  that,  despite  many  praiseworthy  efforts, 
a  number  of  those  crises  have  not  only  continued  but 
worsened. I want to take this opportunity to talk about 
the  three  biggest  threats  we  face.  The  first  is  climate 
change.  Every  year  is  warmer  than  the  one  before. 
Every  year  more  severe  weather  events  occur.  Every 
year  more  people  and  other  living  creatures  are 
irreversibly  affected  by  hurricanes,  floods,  droughts 
and pollution. While we consider global efforts such as 
the Paris Agreement important, if we do not tackle the 
underlying structural causes of climate change, we will 
not be able to stop it, all the more so when the biggest 
polluter in the history of humankind, the United States, 
turns its back on science, multilateralism and thereby 
on  humankind.  Climate  change  is  an  inseparable 
consequence of capitalism, overproduction and patterns 
of consumption. The planet is exhausted and so is life 
along with it.
The  second  major  threat  is  the  arms  race,  the 
culture of war and the possibility of a nuclear disaster. 
Many  leaders  of  countries,  especially  those  that  have 
the  most  weapons,  come  to  this  forum  to  talk  about 
peace. Military spending is growing, with an increase 
of 1.1 per cent in 2017 over spending in 2016, and has 
now reached the extraordinary sum of $1.739 trillion, or 
2.2 per cent of the global gross domestic product. The 
world cannot live at the expense of those who believe 
that  they  have  the  right  to  produce  and  use  weapons 
capable  of  totally  destroying  life  on  our  planet.  In 
addition,  the  arms  industry  feeds  off  war,  and  as  its 
weapons are proved to be effective at killing children, 
the value of their shares increases in the stock market. 
That criminal logic must end. That threat also comes at 
the hand of those who are willing to invade countries 
and change Governments in order to expropriate their 
peoples’ natural resources. They install military bases 
with the aim of controlling the entire planet.
The third great threat is inequality. Every year our 
wealth is concentrated in fewer hands. In 2017, 82 per 
cent of the world’s increase in wealth ended up in the 
hands of the richest 1 per cent of the population, while 
half  of  humankind  saw  no  increase  at  all.  According 
to  data  from  Credit  Suisse,  42  people  are  now  worth 
the  same  as  3.7  billion  others  taken  all  together. 
Those  figures  are  shameful,  and  we  should  all  be 
ashamed,  because  they  represent  a  model  of  wealth 
accumulation and poverty distribution rather than one 
of wealth distribution.
Bolivia  condemns  in  the  clearest  and  strongest 
terms the illegal, inhuman and criminal economic and 
financial  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  by  the  United 
States.  The  United  States  has  the  obligation  to  make 
financial reparations for the damage done to the heroic 
Cuban  people  and  should  comply  with  the  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions  by  immediately  lifting 
the  blockade.  It  should  also  restore  Guantanamo  to 
Cuban sovereignty and refrain from any interference or 
intervention in its internal affairs.
From  our  seat  on  the  Security  Council,  we  have 
closely  followed  the  progress  and  difficulties  in  the 
implementation of the peace agreement signed between 
18-29877
33/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
the Government of Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas 
Revolucionarias  de  Colombia-Ejército  del  Pueblo.  We 
are hopeful that the new Government of Colombia will 
promote  the  processes  for  the  social  and  economic 
reintegration  of  ex-combatants  and  will  protect  the 
lives of human rights defenders and community leaders, 
thereby  once  again  affirming  that  Latin  America  and 
the Caribbean is a zone of peace.
Our  brother  country  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  is  suffering  shameless  aggression  at  the 
hands of the United States and its allies. Latin America 
firmly  rejects  any  attempts  to  intervene  militarily  in 
Venezuela.  Venezuelan  issues  must  be  solved  by  the 
Venezuelans,  and  the  United  States  must  abandon 
the illegal and unilateral measures that are one of the 
causes of Venezuela’s economic problems.
We also want to take this opportunity to condemn 
the criminal Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories 
and  the  United  States  Government’s  unilateral  and 
illegal decision to declare Jerusalem the capital of Israel, 
which jeopardizes any possibility of reaching a just and 
lasting peace. We also reiterate our support for a two-
State solution, with a free, independent and sovereign 
Palestinian  State  based  on  the  pre-1967  borders  with 
East Jerusalem as its capital.
We  deeply  regret  the  fact  that  the  war  in  Syria 
has  caused  more  than  half  a  million  deaths  in  the 
past  eight  years,  a  consequence  of  policies  of  regime 
change,  interference  in  internal  affairs  and  efforts  to 
expropriate  natural  resources.  Bolivia  repudiates  the 
violations of sovereignty, independence and territorial 
integrity directly or indirectly perpetrated by different 
States,  including  the  United  States,  and  we  hope  that 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  reach  a  political 
agreement by and for the Syrians will soon bear fruit. 
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  Russia,  Iran,  Turkey  and 
Kazakhstan  to  prevent  any  more  suffering  by  the 
Syrian people.
In  conclusion,  it  is  my  duty  to  inform  the 
Assembly  about  the  situation  in  Bolivia.  As  is  well 
known, we have liberated ourselves from the bonds of 
United  States  military  bases,  the  Drug  Enforcement 
Administration  and  the  United  States  Agency  for 
International  Development,  and  from  the  demands  of 
the International Monetary Fund as well as other types 
of taxation. Bolivia is now an example to the region and 
the world. We have one of the fastest-growing economies 
in  the  region.  In  the  past  decade  we  have  reduced 
extreme  poverty  from  37  per  cent  to  17  per  cent.  We 
have increased life expectancy by eight years, lowered 
infant  mortality  by  56  per  cent  and  reduced  chronic 
child malnutrition by 50 per cent. Bolivia invests more 
money than any other country in the world in renewable 
energies in relation to gross domestic product. We are 
building a more just society. We also want to take this 
opportunity to inform the Assembly that, as part of an 
initiative  to  fight  corruption,  our  President  and  Vice 
President have renounced bank secrecy. We call on all 
Heads of State to pursue such a measure with a view to 
governing as transparently as possible.
Those  achievements  have  been  made  possible 
thanks to the unity of the Bolivian people, the defence 
of our sovereignty, the recovery of our natural resources 
and  strategic  enterprises,  the  pluralistic  economic 
model and the redistribution of wealth. We reaffirm our 
commitment to multilateralism. It is imperative that we 
work together to build a society with equal opportunities 
for all. We must take care of this planet, our only home. 
We must make this a world where justice is possible and 
peace a reality.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia for the statement 
he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., 
President of the Republic of Palau
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Palau.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Tommy Esang 
Remengesau Jr., President of the Republic of Palau, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Remengesau: Let me begin by congratulating 
Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  recent 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session,  becoming  only  the  fourth 
34/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
woman to take that seat and the first to represent her 
region.  Palau  welcomes  her  to  that  prominent  role.  I 
have no doubt that, as our captain on our voyage towards 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, she will 
steer this canoe in a unique and effective way. Let me 
also  express  my  gratitude  to  His  Excellency  Minister 
Miroslav Lajčák for his exceptional service during his 
recently completed term.
I would also like to pay my respects to a great leader 
and  humanitarian,  our  former  Secretary-General  and 
Nobel Peace Prize laureate Kofi Annan. A friend and 
ally to all, Mr. Annan was the living embodiment of our 
mission  to  create  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable 
societies.  This  year  we  also  celebrate  the  legacy  of 
Nelson  Mandela,  which  continues  to  inspire  the  poor 
and  the  oppressed  to  demand  equal  rights.  In  honour 
of  the  centenary  of  his  birth,  the  Nelson  Mandela 
Peace  Summit  (see  A/73/PV.4  and  5)  was  a  historic 
opportunity to reaffirm our faith in the principles and 
values of the Charter of the United Nations.
The Republic of Palau is committed to promoting 
peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies  both 
at  home  and  internationally.  We  see  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  as  the  most  important 
framework for achieving that objective. The path that 
each country takes to achieve its goals will be unique, 
but we recognize that all are interlinked and reinforce 
one  another.  Palau’s  core  priorities  are  health,  oceans 
and  climate  change,  through  which  the  rest  of  our 
development  objectives,  through  genuine  and  durable 
partnerships, will be realized.
Palau has declared 2018 as a Year of Good Health. 
At home we are implementing a number of actions to 
raise awareness and to cultivate healthier lifestyles so as 
to respond to the deadly problem of non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs). Palau is one of the 10 countries with 
the highest rates of obesity in the world. I am sorry to 
say  that,  while  in  other  parts  of  the  world  people  are 
dying of hunger and poverty, in our corner of the Pacific 
we are dying from overeating and a poor diet. The rise 
in the incidence of diabetes, heart disease, cancer and 
other NCDs is attributed to unhealthy diets, insufficient 
physical  activity,  the  excessive  consumption  of  salt, 
sugar  and  fat  and  alcohol  and  tobacco  use.  NCDs  are 
now  the  leading  cause  of  death  in  Palau  and,  sadly, 
throughout the Pacific region. As many as 75 per cent 
of us will die prematurely from NCDs. The crisis has 
prompted a strategic shift in focus at Palau’s Ministry 
of  Health  towards  increasing  preventive  services  in 
an effort to improve the health and livelihoods of our 
people. We are encouraging a return to traditional diets 
and  increasing  our  local  food  production,  as  much  of 
the problem stems from imports of unhealthy junk food. 
However, in the case of tuberculosis, I am very happy 
to  report  that  the  incidence  of  tuberculosis  has  been 
minimal and well under control for the past few years.
For  my  country,  the  ocean  is  our  livelihood,  our 
culture and our identity, which is why achieving SDG 
14 is so critical for us. The ocean is also the foundation 
of our booming tourism industry, which will continue 
to  be  the  largest  provider  of  jobs  in  the  country.  We 
have  launched  a  new  campaign,  Pristine  Paradise 
Palau,  which  makes  sustainability  a  top  priority.  I 
firmly  believe  that  our  environment  is  our  economy 
and  our  economy  is  our  environment.  Preserving 
our  magnificent  coral  reefs  and  abundant  fisheries 
will  ensure  that  tourism  continues  to  grow,  as  well 
as  protecting  our  food  security  for  generations  to 
come. For that reason, we have moved aggressively to 
implement  our  national  marine  sanctuary,  a  no-take 
zone that covers 80 per cent of our exclusive economic 
zone.  It  is  Palau’s  contribution  to  the  global  effort  to 
achieve  SDG  14.  The  marine  biodiversity  endemic  to 
Palau is priceless. We are therefore eager to work with 
the scientific community to identify more ways to build 
the resilience of our coral reef ecosystem.
We are proud of our domestic efforts but international 
action remains essential. Last year, the world gathered 
here in this great Hall and declared that the ocean was 
sick and needed our united global assistance to restore 
it to good health (see resolution 71/312). This year, in 
response  to  that  call  for  help,  Prime  Minister  Erna 
Solberg of Norway and I, together with representatives 
of  the  Governments  of  Australia,  Chile,  Fiji,  Ghana, 
Indonesia,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Mexico,  Namibia  and 
Portugal  and  the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Envoy 
for  the  Ocean,  launched  the  High-level  Panel  for  a 
Sustainable Ocean Economy. The Panel seeks solutions 
for  building  a  transformative  political  agenda  for 
ocean  action  and  the  development  of  a  platform  to 
deliver the management and tracking of commitments, 
initiatives  and  partnerships,  including  science-based 
monitoring  of 
the  ocean,  featuring  national  and 
private-sector leadership.
Palau  is  also  seeking  a  strong  outcome  to  the 
intergovernmental  conference  on  an 
international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
18-29877
35/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  which  will  be  an 
important complement to our domestic actions. Further 
out  on  the  horizon,  my  country  will  be  proud  to  play 
host  to  the  Our  Ocean  2020  Conference.  That  same 
year,  Portugal  will  host  the  United  Nations  Ocean 
Conference. We must identify our priorities and catalyse 
new coalitions so that the year 2020 will indeed come 
to be remembered as a year of action.
My  Government  also  takes  very  seriously  its 
contribution  to  the  Paris  Agreement,  which  is  also 
integral  to  our  plans  for  achieving  SDG  13  and  other 
relevant goals. Climate change is the greatest challenge 
of  our  generation.  Only  this  month  we  once  again 
saw  the  damage  that  record-breaking  cyclones  cause 
vulnerable countries, as Super Typhoon Mangkhut did 
the  Philippines.  Building  the  resilience  of  vulnerable 
countries  to  the  effects  of  climate  change  must  be  an 
urgent global priority.
Palau  has  developed  a  climate  change  policy 
framework  with  the  aim  of  undertaking  effective 
adaptation measures to deal with the expected effects of 
climate change, strengthen our capacity to prepare and 
minimize disaster risks and mitigate climate change by 
working  towards  low-carbon  emission  through  clean 
energy initiatives. Meanwhile, we continue to work with 
our global and regional partners to build capacity and 
mainstream climate change into our national planning 
and budgeting process. Small island developing States 
are  indeed  making  great  strides  in  transforming  their 
energy  systems.  As  part  of  our  vision  for  building 
a  pristine  paradise,  Palau  has  adopted  ambitious 
international  commitments  to  increase  its  supply  of 
renewable energy by harnessing the power of the sun 
and transforming our energy sector to receive at least 
45 per cent of our electricity from renewable sources by 
2025. Smokestacks have no place in paradise. Let me 
say that again. Smokestacks have no place in paradise.
Our  target  represents  an  extremely  ambitious 
undertaking  but  we  are  confident  that,  with  the  right 
partners,  we  can  achieve  our  goal.  We  take  very 
seriously  our  responsibility  to  reduce  our  greenhouse 
gas  emissions  as  part  of  the  global  effort  to  limit  the 
temperature  rise  to  1.5°  Celsius.  While  Palau  emits  a 
minuscule fraction of the global aggregate, we believe 
that the example we set can inspire many others to act. 
Earlier this year, we took a big step forward by enacting 
a law modernizing our electricity sector to enable it to 
make a rapid transition to renewable energy, and we now 
have the enabling framework to trigger investments in 
transforming  our  economy  so  that  it  can  harness  the 
sun’s  power.  We  can  now  contemplate  the  possibility 
that, in the near future, people and consumers will pay 
less  for  electricity  and  the  financial  savings  will  be 
distributed to the areas where it is needed most, such 
as  health  and  education.  One  day  very  soon,  visitors 
to  our  islands  will  be  treated  not  only  to  a  beautiful 
environment  but  also  to  a  bold  example  of  a  more 
sustainable way of life.
Of  course,  all  of  that  work  depends  on  the 
dedication  of  our  partners  and  their  commitment  to 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  17.  Our  ambitious 
goals  can  only  be  attained  with  strong  international 
partnerships  that  respect  our  national  priorities  and 
independence.  Palau  is  fortunate  to  have  many  good 
friends and strong partners. We continue to strengthen 
our  relationship  with  the  United  States  of  America 
through the Compact of Free Association, and we offer 
our  gratitude  for  our  unique  relationship.  We  wish  to 
give  special  thanks  to  the  United  States  of  America 
for  the  approval  of  the  amended  financial  provisions 
of  our  Compact.  The  Government  of  Japan  has  also 
provided  generous  support  through  the  years,  and 
we  are  sincerely  grateful.  Its  friendship,  assistance, 
partnership  and  support  continue  to  strengthen  our 
economic and social undertakings.
We  would  also  like  to  express  special  thanks  to 
India  for  its  recent  efforts  to  expand  and  strengthen 
its  partnership  with  my  country.  India  has  partnered 
with us to improve our youth initiatives and strengthen 
family  projects,  and  this  year  I  have  declared  2018 
as  a  Year  of  Good  Health,  for  which  India  is  now  a 
significant  partner  in  reforming  our  health  sector. 
We look forward to working through the Indo-Pacific 
strategy for partnerships in maintaining the integrity of 
our maritime areas. Cooperation in surveillance and the 
efforts of international law against illegal, unreported 
and unregulated fishing will address a major challenge 
to  sustainable  fisheries,  as  well  as  improve  regional 
security. The Government of Australia remains a strong 
partner in our maritime surveillance and enforcement 
efforts. We also recognize its support to the development 
of  our  information  and  communications  technology 
sector through the World Bank.
The Republic of China, Taiwan has long been an ally 
in our efforts to achieve our Sustainable Development 
Goals.  That  special  friendship  and  partnership  can 
be  seen  in  our  infrastructure  investments,  as  well  as 
36/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
continued assistance in health and education. We urge 
the United Nations to seek a solution that will enable 
it to include Taiwan in all its processes, including the 
International Civil Aviation Organization and the World 
Health Organization. My Government firmly believes 
that  Taiwan’s  inclusion  in  the  United  Nations  system 
will greatly benefit the work of the United Nations and 
its 2030 Agenda and beyond. Palau is fortunate to have 
gained many newer partners and friends, and I would 
like to recognize the European Union, Italy, Indonesia, 
New  Zealand,  Russia,  Thailand,  Spain,  Singapore, 
Korea,  South  Africa,  Cuba,  the  Czech  Republic,  Viet 
Nam and many others.
testing  and 
We  remain  committed  to  the  need  to  ensure  that 
nuclear  weapons  are  never  used  again.  There  is  an 
inextricable  connection  between 
the 
elimination of nuclear weapons. The legacy of the more 
than 2,000 nuclear tests that have been conducted has 
touched  people  and  communities  in  many  regions, 
including the victims of nuclear testing in the Pacific. 
Nuclear  tests  have  damaged  the  environment,  human 
health,  food  security  and  economic  development. 
Weapons  of  mass  destruction  have  no  place  in  this 
world,  and  we  urge  that  efforts  be  made  to  achieve 
the  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible  dismantling 
of such weapons and ballistic missiles of all ranges by 
North Korea. The global community must adhere to the 
fulfilment and implementation of the relevant Security 
Council resolutions and should uphold the international 
rule of law.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-General 
for initiating reforms of the United Nations, including 
the  repositioning  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system.  Given  the  special  status  of  our  small  island 
States  with  regard  to  their  vulnerability,  remoteness 
and  size,  the  reform  under  way  is  timely  and  also 
highlights the need for a strengthened role for United 
Nations  country  teams  and  the  resident  coordinator 
system,  along  with  the  establishment  of  permanent 
offices for them in our region. We must ensure that the 
smallest  countries  are  able  to  fully  participate  in  the 
development  of  reform  plans.  Palau  also  reiterates  its 
call, as a member of the Pacific small island developing 
States, for the appointment of a Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  climate  and  security, 
which  would  address  a  significant  gap  in  the  United 
Nations system.
Building  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable 
societies  is  no  longer  an  aspirational  ideal.  It  is  an 
absolute  necessity  for  addressing  the  very  grave 
economic, environmental and humanitarian challenges 
facing  the  world.  Palau  stands  with  the  Assembly  as 
we begin the seventy-third session and as we continue 
working on that critical voyage.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Palau  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, President 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicolás 
Maduro Moros, President of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Maduro  Moros  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  delegation  of 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés 
on  her  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  the  first  Latin 
American woman to assume that position.
We have been convened to work on and address at 
this session the important and crucial theme “Making 
the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful, 
equitable and sustainable societies”. Making the United 
Nations  relevant  to  all  is  indeed  a  noble  and  lofty 
objective, which the United Nations system must pursue 
at  the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century,  a  century  of 
great opportunities that we firmly believe will set the 
tone for the processes of human, political and popular 
liberation  that  will  have  a  significant  impact  on  the 
future of the Organization sooner rather than later.
18-29877
37/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
The United Nations was born in 1945, in the heat 
of the end of the so-called Second World War. The way 
it  was  organized  throughout  the  rest  of  the  twentieth 
century was a reflection of the post-war conflicts and 
action of those years in a bipolar and — after the fall of 
the Soviet Union in the 1990s — a unipolar world. The 
correlation of forces and the functioning of the world 
have  always  directly  influenced  the  United  Nations 
and, in order for it to be relevant, in accordance with 
the objective of the seventy-third session of the General 
Assembly, it must express the desires, the way of being, 
the culture, the political thought, the strength and the 
hopes of the majority of the peoples of the world.
That is why Venezuela has come here today — to 
speak  its  truth.  I  bring  to  the  Assembly  the  truth  of 
a  fighting,  heroic  and  revolutionary  people.  I  speak 
on  behalf  of  a  homeland  that,  throughout  its  history, 
has refused to surrender to injustice or to the empires 
that  yesterday  were  made  up  of  slave  owners  and 
colonialists  and  that  today  are  still  made  up  of  slave 
owners  —  neocolonialist  slave  owners.  I  speak  on 
behalf  of  a  historic  people  who  rose  up  in  a  heroic 
resistance  to  support  indigenous  and  native  peoples 
who for centuries resisted domination by the colonial 
empires  of  the  past.  I  speak  on  behalf  of  the  country 
that  has  the  honour  to  be  the  birthplace  of  the  great 
liberator Simón Bolívar, the outstanding leader of the 
generation of liberators of the Americas, who 200 years 
ago achieved the heroic feat of founding a continent and 
a region and of realizing a dream — that of independent 
republics in this region of the world.
Venezuela is a historic place. It is both a birthplace 
and  a  school  of  republican  values,  a  birthplace  and 
school  of  rebellion,  a  birthplace  and  a  school  for 
dignity  and  for  the  values  such  as  equality  on  which 
our  homeland  has  stubbornly  insisted  in  its  search 
for  its  independence  and  sovereignty  throughout  the 
centuries. That is the voice I bring to this Hall, which 
has been the backdrop for one of the most infamous and 
shameful assaults we have seen in recent years.
Our  country  has  been  harassed  and  assaulted. 
Yesterday, in this very Hall, the President of the United 
States of America once again attacked the noble people 
of Venezuela (see A/73/PV.6), invoking the doctrine that 
established the United States empire 200 years ago and 
determined  its  interventionist  role,  its  purported  role 
as  judge,  plaintiff  and  policeman  of  the  world  —  the 
Monroe  Doctrine.  In  this  very  Hall,  the  President  of 
the  most  powerful  imperial  nation  in  the  world,  the 
United  States  of  America,  articulated  the  doctrine  of 
James Monroe, who, in his day, said that America was 
for  the  people  of  the  United  States  and  that  the  rest 
of  the  Americas  must  belong  to  the  United  States,  as 
its  backyard,  in  the  interest  of  the  Washington  elites 
that dominated the way in which that nation, a former 
colony  of  the  British  Empire,  was  organized.  In  fact, 
he  took  the  Monroe  Doctrine  further  yesterday.  We 
may ask why President Donald Trump unleashed such a 
ferocious expression of American power at every level 
in his speech yesterday.
This  is  a  historic  conflict,  as  we  have  often  told 
the  world.  Our  people  are  quite  familiar  with  it.  It  is 
a  conflict  between  the  imperialist,  interventionist, 
neocolonialist  Monroe  Doctrine  and 
the  historic 
republican doctrine of independence, rebellion, dignity, 
justice,  freedom  and  equality  of  our  liberator,  Simón 
Bolívar. It is an old conflict. It is an old confrontation 
with  an  imperialist  doctrine  seeking  to  dominate  our 
region. In the nineteenth century, it was our region alone 
that they wanted to dominate. In the twentieth century, 
they  were  already  planning  to  dominate  the  world. 
In  the  twenty-first  century,  they  intend  to  continue 
dominating, directing, blackmailing and giving orders 
to the world as if it were their own property.
the 
republican 
In  our  region  this  is  a  200-year-old  conflict  and 
libertarian 
confrontation  between 
flag  —  which  in  the  nineteenth  century  of  Simón 
Bolívar and the liberators advocated a world of balance 
and respect — and the pro-imperialist, interventionist 
flags  promoting  the  domination  of  an  entire  region 
by an elite that had already taken control of power in 
Washington. It is an old, historic conflict, with which 
we  are  very  familiar.  Today  Venezuela  is  the  victim 
of  ongoing  aggression  on  the  economic,  political  and 
diplomatic fronts — and in the media — by those who 
govern the United States of America. It uses the Monroe 
Doctrine  to  justify  from  an  ideological,  political  and 
diplomatic  point  of  view  the  aggression  against  our 
beloved homeland, our very raison d’être.
What is the reason for that political, economic and 
diplomatic  aggression  against  Venezuela?  First  of  all, 
it is because Venezuela has carried out an independent 
project of democratic revolution and social redemption 
and has built its own new social model, founded on our 
country’s historical roots, identity and the very culture 
of our Latin American region. For 20 years, they have 
tried to stop the course of history, development and a 
38/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
revolutionary project that was born from the very roots 
of the struggles of our people and our region.
and 
this 
Secondly  — 
is  perhaps  more 
understandable — it is for global geopolitical reasons. 
Venezuela  has  the  largest  internationally  certified 
oil  reserve  in  the  world.  Venezuela,  a  founder  of  the 
Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries, 
a  country  that  has  been  producing  oil  for  100  years, 
discovered  and  internationally  certified  the  world’s 
largest oil reserve. Venezuela also possesses significant 
natural  and  mining  resources.  Today,  our  country  is 
pursuing the certification of what could be the world’s 
largest gold reserve, based on international standards. 
The world should know that, in addition to the largest 
international  oil  reserve,  Venezuela  is  in  the  process 
of having its gold reserve certified as the largest in the 
world, based on international standards. We are also in 
the process of certifying what will be the fourth-largest 
gas reserve in the world. These are significant natural 
resources  in  an  important  geopolitical,  economic  and 
strategic location, which has led the oligarchies on our 
continent  and  those  who  dominate  from  Washington 
to  consider  taking  over  and  controlling  Venezuela’s 
political power.
Today  Venezuela  is  also  the  victim  of  ongoing 
economic aggression. In the past two years it has been 
subjected to a series of unilateral, illegal measures of 
economic  persecution  and  blockade.  We  have  been 
prevented  from  using  the  dollar,  the  international 
currency, on the authority of the United States Secretary 
of  the  Treasury.  Today  Venezuela  cannot  negotiate 
any  international  transaction  using  the  dollar.  Does 
the  world  know  that  Venezuela  is  being  persecuted 
economically,  commercially  and  monetarily?  Today 
we  are  subject  to  a  set  of  illegal,  unilateral  economic 
sanction  mechanisms.  Yesterday,  the  President  of  the 
United States, from this very rostrum, announced new 
economic and financial so-called sanctions against our 
country  under  the  cover  of  law  —  international  law. 
Does  the  United  Nations  system  know  that  unilateral 
sanctions 
through 
currency  and  financial  persecution  are  illegal  under 
international law?
that  use  preferential 
treatment 
Venezuela  is  also  subject  to  ongoing  aggression 
in  the  media.  An  attempt  has  been  made  to  build  a 
file to justify an international intervention. Today we 
know  that  plans  have  been  made  for  an  international 
military  intervention  to  control  our  country.  A  case 
against our country has been constructed in the global 
media, alleging the existence of a humanitarian crisis 
and using United Nations concepts to justify permitting 
a coalition of countries, headed by the Government of 
the United States and its satellite Governments in Latin 
America, to get its hands on our country. A migratory 
crisis has been manufactured in various ways, a crisis 
that  is  collapsing  under  its  own  weight  and  that  is 
intended  to  divert  attention  from  the  real  migratory 
crises that exist in the world and demonstrate the degree 
to which the countries of the South are disadvantaged. 
The  migratory  crisis  that  exists  in  Central  America, 
in Mexico and in Latin America was triggered by the 
announcement of a separation wall against our peoples, 
a  wall  dividing  our  peoples.  No  one  wants  to  talk 
about that. It is evidence of the double standards in the 
treatment  of  the  real  situation  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean migrants, who are contained and persecuted 
on the border with Mexico, where families have been 
separated  and  children  kidnapped,  yet  where  there  is 
no  interest  in  addressing  or  raising  awareness  about 
the issue.
There  is  no  interest  in  drawing  attention  to 
the  seriousness  of  the  migratory  crisis  caused  by 
NATO’s  destruction  of  Libya,  which  has  led  to  the 
migration of thousands, in fact millions, of our African 
brothers  —  and  of  the  war  against  Syria,  which  has 
resulted  in  the  migration  of  people  from  the  Middle 
East.  Instead,  an  attempt  has  been  made  to  focus  on 
an  alleged  migratory  crisis  in  Venezuela  through 
a  worldwide  media  campaign  to  justify  what  has 
been  announced  for  several  years  —  a  humanitarian 
intervention. It is the same kind of plot that was used 
in the story of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. It is 
the same kind of plot that justified intervening in other 
countries but it is now being conducted through a major 
campaign of brutal psychological warfare.
Today  Venezuela  is  also  the  victim  of  diplomatic 
aggression.  Yesterday,  my  brothers  and  sisters  of  the 
Governments  of  the  world  witnessed  as  the  President 
of  the  United  States  made  direct  threats  to  cut  off 
and  withdraw  aid.  We  witnessed  direct  threats  by 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  block  aid  to 
international  support  and  assistance  systems  for  the 
Governments  and  peoples  of  the  world  who  need  it. 
We  have  heard  statements  from  various  Governments 
demanding better mechanisms for access to financing 
for development, to which our peoples are entitled. The 
President of the United States yesterday, from this same 
rostrum,  threatened  the  Governments  of  the  world 
18-29877
39/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
by  telling  them  that  they  must  submit  to  his  designs, 
obey his orders and cooperate with his policies in the 
United  Nations  system  or  suffer  the  consequences. 
A  ferocious  diplomatic  offensive  has  been  directed 
against  Venezuela  in  all  the  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  supported  by  satellite  Governments 
that  kneel  and  sully  the  honour  of  the  peoples  they 
claim to represent.
Venezuela has been subjected to continued political 
aggression.  On  8  September,  The  New  York  Times
published evidence of the participation of White House 
and  United  States  Government  officials  in  meetings 
on  how  to  promote  a  military  coup  d’état  and  bring 
about  a  change  of  Government,  a  regime  change,  in 
Venezuela.  The New  York  Times  investigation,  which 
was  picked  up  by  Time  magazine,  The  Washington 
Post  and  throughout  the  world  press,  is  further 
confirmation  of  the  conspiracy  and  the  ongoing 
attacks by the Government of the United States against 
the  strong,  constitutional  democracy  —  a  people’s 
democracy  —  that  is  the  Venezuelan  democracy.  We 
had already repelled, at the time, attempts to carry out 
violence  against  our  Constitution  and  to  cause  riots 
and attempted military coups against the constitutional 
and revolutionary Government, over which, thanks to 
the  popular  will  and  vote,  I  preside  in  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela.
After the failure of those apparent attempts to bring 
about riots and military attacks described in the pages 
of  The  New  York  Times,  that  newspaper  detailed  how 
United  States  officials,  supported  by  the  Colombian 
Government  and  institutions,  met  and  offered  their 
encouragement  and  support  to  that  attempt  at  regime 
change. Can the United Nations system, can humankind 
and — I say this to my Latin American and Caribbean 
brothers  —  can  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
accept such methods, which did so much damage to our 
region  throughout  the  twentieth  century?  How  many 
military  interventions  and  coups  d’état  were  there? 
How  many  dictatorships  were  imposed  during  the 
long, dark twentieth century in Latin America and the 
Caribbean?  And  whom  did  they  favour?  The  people? 
Whose interests did they represent? They represented 
the interests of transnational corporations — interests 
contrary  to  those  of  our  peoples.  We  had  to  endure 
long  dictatorships,  such  as  that  of  Augusto  Pinochet 
in  Chile,  because  of  the  determination  of  the  United 
States  elites  who  believed  in  the  Monroe  Doctrine  to 
deny the right that we had earned to govern ourselves 
in  the  way  we  need  to  govern  ourselves  and  to  build 
economic, political and cultural systems that were our 
region’s own.
That  is  why  I  said  that  I  have  come  to  bring  the 
truth of a people engaged in a struggle. Venezuela is at 
the centre of a political and media campaign that seems 
to have no end. That is why we bring the truth of our 
homeland to the General Assembly.
After  the  failure  of  those  illegal,  unconstitutional 
and  criminal  attempts  to  bring  about  regime  change, 
published in The New York Times; after the democratic 
presidential  election  on  20  May,  in  which  this  public 
servant  standing  before  the  Assembly  today,  Nicolás 
Maduro  Moros,  obtained  68  per  cent  of  the  popular 
votes  in  free  elections  —  the  presidential  election  on 
20 May was the twenty-fourth election in 19 years, and 
the Bolivarian revolutionary forces, with varying levels 
of  approval,  have  won  22  out  of  24  elections  against 
the  opposition  forces  in  our  country;  after  the  failure 
of the attempts to carry out military coups d’état; and 
after the failure of the candidacies and electoral tactics 
supported by Washington, with the immense electoral 
triumph  that  the  people  gave  us,  on  4  August,  I  was 
the victim of a terrorist attack by drones that tried to 
assassinate me in military style on a main street of the 
capital city of Caracas. If the attack had been executed 
as  planned  —  and  this  is  public  knowledge  —  there 
would  have  been  a  massacre  and  all  of  Venezuela’s 
institutional, political and military leaders would have 
been killed.
That  same  4  August,  the  terrorist  perpetrators  of 
the  drone  attack,  the  first  known  global  drone  attack 
by  terrorists,  were  captured  by  our  State’s  security 
and police agencies. All 28 perpetrators were captured 
through  various  investigations,  and  all  of  them  have 
confessed  and  been  convicted.  As  has  been  made 
public  and  as  various  Governments  around  the  world 
have been informed, all the investigations indicate that 
the terrorist attack of 4 August was prepared, financed 
and planned from the territory of the United States of 
America.  Through  diplomatic  channels,  I  have  made 
the  United  States  Government  aware  of  the  names  of 
the  organizers,  financiers  and  planners  of  the  serious 
terrorist attack of 4 August, and we have given proof 
of  their  involvement.  All  the  investigations  indicate 
that  the  attack  and  its  perpetrators,  as  they  have 
confessed,  were  trained  and  prepared  for  months  on 
Colombian  territory  under  the  protection  and  support 
of the Colombian authorities. The latest investigations 
40/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
and arrests have revealed, as I have made public, that 
some diplomatic officials of the Governments of Chile, 
Colombia  and  Mexico  have  been  implicated  by  the 
perpetrators in efforts to facilitate their escape after the 
terrorist attack was carried out.
I want to ask the United Nations system to appoint 
a  special  representative  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
conduct an independent international investigation into 
the implications of the terrorist attack that our country 
suffered  on  4  August  and  those  responsible  for  it. 
Venezuela is open — as are the doors of our country 
and  of  our  justice  system  —  to  establishing  direct 
responsibility  for  that  aggression,  which  is  the  most 
serious  to  have  taken  place  in  our  country’s  political 
history.  Through  their  involvement,  they  sought  to 
create  chaos  in  our  homeland  and  to  leave  the  entire 
State leaderless in order to justify national confrontation 
and 
the 
implementation of mechanisms outside the multilateral 
system of the United Nations and military intervention, 
as other countries have experienced in the past.
internal  violence, 
thereby 
rationalizing 
Venezuela therefore formally proposes support for 
an independent international investigation and that the 
truth about those events be established. Even I have said 
to  the  United  States  Government  how  good  it  would 
be if the United States Government, which has denied 
its involvement in preparing and in carrying out those 
attacks, were to heed my appeal that the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation, together with high-level professionals 
and experts, take part in the investigation to clarify and 
help  the  Venezuelan  justice  system  to  determine  the 
truth, and only the truth.
When I arrived in New York today, in the afternoon, 
I  learned  that  some  journalists  had  asked  President 
Donald Trump if he was willing to meet Maduro — as 
they call me — Nicolás Maduro, President of Venezuela. 
It seems that President Donald Trump said in some of 
his replies today that if that helped Venezuela, he would 
be willing to do so. I therefore say and affirm to him 
from this rostrum that, despite the immense historical, 
ideological  and  social  differences  —  I  am  a  worker, 
a  bus  driver,  a  man  of  the  people,  not  a  tycoon  or  a 
billionaire — despite all the differences, which could 
be considered immeasurable, I, Nicolás Maduro Moros, 
President of Venezuela, would be willing to shake hands 
with  the  President  of  the  United  States  and  sit  down 
and discuss our bilateral differences and the issues of 
our region that have been so talked about. That is what 
I think.
Venezuela  is  a  nation  with  a  tradition  of  peace. 
Venezuela  is  a  friendly  country.  Venezuelans  do  not 
hate the United States. On the contrary, we appreciate 
the United States, its culture, its arts, its society. But we 
disagree with the imperialist concepts that have taken 
hold  of  political  power  in  Washington  since  the  very 
founding of the nation.
Simón  Bolívar  was  our  liberator  who  wrote,  in 
1829,  almost  prophetically:  “The  United  States  seems 
destined by Providence to plague America with miseries 
in  the  name  of  freedom.”  He  had  prophetic  vision.  It 
must have been hard to see so early what would come 
to pass in the twentieth century. Do President Donald 
Trump  and  I  have  any  differences?  Indeed  we  do. 
But it is those with differences who should enter into 
dialogue.  It  is  those  with  differences  who  must  bring 
their goodwill and their ability to communicate to the 
table. President Trump has said that he is worried about 
Venezuela, that he wants to help Venezuela. Well, I am 
prepared  to  discuss,  with  an  open  agenda,  any  topic 
with the American Government with humility, honesty 
and sincerity.
As  President  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries,  Venezuela  flies  the  flag  of  the  dialogue 
of  civilizations.  As  President  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  Venezuela  will  always  promote  and 
participate  in  international  political  dialogue  and 
understanding  as  a  way 
international 
conflicts.  We  advocate  political  and  peaceful  means 
rather than force. Venezuela has invaluable experience 
in  organizations  such  as  the  Organization  of  the 
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in dealing with 
differences and building consensus and agreement.
to  resolve 
Recently in Algeria, we held a meeting on the Joint 
Ministerial Monitoring Committee of OPEC. It was an 
extraordinary meeting, attended by the representatives 
of the Monitoring Committee, of which our country is 
one, as well as the representatives of 24 States with the 
largest  oil  reserves  and  the  biggest  producers  of  oil. 
Keeping in mind the cultural, political, geostrategic and 
geopolitical differences, we reached a consensus — one 
voice — in order to continue stabilizing the oil market 
at fair, reasonable and stable prices.
We  believe  in  political  dialogue  as  the  way  to 
channel  solutions,  as  the  way  to  resolve  conflicts. 
There have been attempts to demonize the Bolivarian 
revolution of Venezuela with a brutal campaign never 
seen  before,  first  against  Commander  Hugo  Chávez 
18-29877
41/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
Frías,  founder  of  our  revolution  and,  in  the  heart  of 
Venezuelans,  eternal  Commander,  and  then  against 
this humble man standing here carrying the voice of a 
people, who supports his revolution and democratically 
backs  his  actions.  That  is  why  I  reaffirm  our  will  to 
participate  in  international  dialogue  and  national 
political dialogue.
idiosyncrasies,  identities  and  various  political  and 
economic models. There is no single economic model. 
We  cannot  allow  others  to  impose  one  particular 
economic model and way of thinking on us. We cannot 
allow others to impose a particular cultural or political 
model on us. Humankind must not all espouse the same 
uniform way of thought.
I  know  that  there  are  Governments  represented 
in  this  Hall  that  are  interested  in  peace,  sovereignty, 
independence  and  justice  in  Venezuela.  I  open  our 
arms  to  all  those  who  wish  to  help  us  from  Africa, 
Europe, Asia and Latin America, while respecting the 
sovereignty of the country, without intervening in the 
internal affairs of Venezuela, so that they can support 
and  assist  us  in  a  process  of  sovereign  dialogue  for 
the  peace,  democracy,  justice,  prosperity  and  future 
of Venezuela — a noble nation that deserves peace, a 
future and more.
We  bring  good  tidings  from  a  country  that  has 
not  surrendered  and  will  not  surrender.  We  bring 
good  tidings  from  a  nation  that  is  consolidating  its 
democracy.  We  bring  good  tidings  from  a  nation  that 
is empowering its people. We bring good tidings from 
a country that is building its own social model and its 
own social welfare State with new ways of protecting its 
elderly, its retirees, its children, its youth, its women, its 
most vulnerable sectors and its workers. We bring good 
tidings  about  our  efforts  towards  economic  recovery. 
In mid-August, we launched an economic programme 
to bring about growth and prosperity, which is laying 
the foundation for a new economy that does not depend 
on oil revenue, but is, instead, diversified and can grow 
sustainably and build prosperity. We are on our way to 
a new type of social model.
We  believe  in  a  different  world.  Our  generation 
saw the coming and going of the bipolar world of two 
blocs and the Cold War — which some, it seems, wish 
to  bring  back  with  attacks  against  China,  Russia  and 
humble countries like Venezuela. Engaging in combat 
against  countries  like  Russia  and  China  goes  against 
what  should  be  a  humanistic  international  policy  that 
recognizes the emergence of new centres of power and 
the need to build a multipolar world.
Venezuela advocates and is committed to building 
a  multipolar,  multicentric  world  where  the  various 
regions — Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia, 
Europe, North America — can coexist in balance and in 
peace, while respecting each other’s cultures, religions, 
We  demand  the  cultural,  religious  and  political 
diversity  of  humankind  in  this  world.  That  is  why 
we  advocate  the  emergence  of  such  a  world  from  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the emergence of 
a world of justice. We assume and reaffirm our solidarity 
with the Arab people of Palestine. There must be justice 
in Palestine and respect for its historical territories, as 
established in 1967 by the United Nations. We raise the 
flag of the Palestinian people.
We support the call of the United Nations for an end 
to the infamous and criminal 50-year blockade against 
the people of Cuba. We have had enough of continuing 
to apply obsolete methods of another era against Cuba. 
Those  same  methods  are  now  being  applied  against 
other people, such as the Venezuelan people. We will 
therefore happily vote in the coming days in favour of 
the upcoming draft resolution to reject the blockade and 
economic  and  financial  persecution  against  Cuba  and 
demand that it be lifted immediately.
We  have  a  world  to  build.  We  have  a  world  to 
forge. Two hundred years ago, our region was plagued 
with  colonies,  slavery  and  injustice.  One  hundred 
years ago, as a people we strived for freedom. Today, 
in  the  twenty-first  century,  the  time  for  freedom  has 
come  —  the  opportunity  has  undoubtedly  arisen, 
from  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  from  the 
revolutionary ideas of Simón Bolívar and the example 
and legacy of Commander Hugo Chávez, whose voice 
still  echo  in  this  Hall,  clamouring  for  justice  in  the 
world, demanding an end to those imperialist practices 
of threats, coercion and extortion against our peoples.
Today,  we  can  say  that  we  have  lived  through  20 
years of revolution. The past three years have been the 
most difficult with harassment, aggression and attacks. 
We have endured political, media, diplomatic, economic 
and  financial  attacks  and  persecution,  and  I  can  say 
today,  on  26  September,  that  Venezuela  is  stronger 
than ever. We have managed to resist and have found 
strength in our own historical core to still be standing 
today,  victorious  and  ready  to  continue  building  our 
own  social  model  —  that  of  the  socialist  revolution 
42/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
of the twenty-first century. We proclaim it to the four 
winds. It is a new revolution of independence, dignity 
and justice. Today we are stronger than ever.
Two  days  ago  we  witnessed  the  tribute  to  Nelson 
Mandela  (see  A/73/PV.5).  To  speak  of  Mandela  is  to 
speak  of  rebellion.  Mandela  has  been  portrayed  as  a 
fool, as someone who did not fight. Mandela is rebellion 
in the face of injustice. He is courage and bravery. He 
is a challenge to the oppressors. We consider ourselves 
to  be  following  the  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela  and  of 
the great African leaders who have raised the banner of 
equality and justice in the face of slavery, racism and 
colonialism in all of its forms.
We  heard  the  tribute  to  Nelson  Mandela  and 
reflected  on  how  much  the  world  has  changed.  Only 
30  years  ago,  Mandela  was  considered  a  terrorist  by 
the  United  States  Congress  of  the  North  American 
Government.  Just  a  few  years  ago,  Mandela  was  still 
on the terror watch list. Does that not sound familiar? 
Nelson Mandela was a terrorist, he was sanctioned and 
persecuted,  abandoned.  How  the  world  has  changed. 
Today, Nelson Mandela is a flag that we embrace with 
love and conviction. He is a symbol of what is possible 
if  rebellion,  struggle  and  justice  can  win  the  noble 
hearts and minds of people.
I  have  confidence  in  the  future  of  humankind.  I 
have  confidence  in  the  destiny  of  my  country.  I  have 
confidence  in  the  common  future  of  this  community, 
the United Nations. After having survived coup d’état 
attempts  and  terrorist  attacks,  I  can  still  say  that  I 
have  confidence  in  human  beings  and  in  the  future 
of humankind. From Venezuela, we say to the United 
Nations  that  we  have  confidence  in  the  noble  ideals 
of a people that, like the people of Venezuela, has not 
surrendered and will not surrender. The Assembly can 
count on Venezuela for the great causes of the future of 
the United Nations and the future of a multipolar world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, 
President of the Central African Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Central African Republic.
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, President of the 
Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Faustin 
Archange  Touadera,  President  of  the  Central  African 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Touadera  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 
all, I would like to extend my warm congratulations to 
the Republic of Ecuador, and especially to Ms. María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés,  on  her  well-deserved 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-third session. I can assure her of my country’s 
full support for the fulfilment of her mandate. I would 
also like to commend Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for his work 
and the remarkable results achieved during the seventy-
second session, which have contributed significantly to 
strengthening cooperation among our States.
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  gratitude  and 
reiterate our confidence in Secretary-General António 
Guterres  for  his  ongoing  commitment  to  peace  and 
development  in  the  world,  and  especially  for  the 
constant and multifaceted support for my country, the 
Central  African  Republic.  I  would  also  like  to  take 
this opportunity to pay a heartfelt tribute to the great 
African and world leader, Kofi Annan, who passed away 
on 18 August. I salute his memory and acknowledge his 
tireless efforts at the helm of the United Nations with a 
view to building a better world.
This seventy-third session is exploring an important 
theme.  I  therefore  come  to  share  our  contribution 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  remains 
relevant  for  all  in  the  context  of  a  global  partnership 
and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies.  In  the  twenty-first  century, 
that  goal  requires  structural  reforms  within  our 
Organization, which for more than 70 years has made 
considerable  gains  that  must  be  consolidated  even  if 
challenges and weaknesses still remain.
The  aim  of  the  current  session  is  to  promote 
reflection  on  how  our  common  Organization  should 
18-29877
43/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
address  the  new  challenges  facing  the  world  and  our 
societies  today,  such  as  terrorism,  violent  extremism, 
climate  change,  migration  and  poverty.  The  role  of 
the  United  Nations  through  the  combined  efforts  of 
Member States in multilateral action has led to major 
advances in global peace, security and development.
That  was  true  yesterday  for  the  emancipation  of 
people through self-determination. It is still true today 
in  the  search  for  solutions  to  increasingly  complex 
problems  —  violent  extremism  and 
international 
terrorism, the eradication of poverty, the persistence of 
conflicts  in  the  world,  lingering  economic  and  social 
inequalities,  the  widening  development  gap  among 
States and the massive violation of human rights. That 
is  why  my  country,  the  Central  African  Republic, 
will continue to support the central role of the United 
Nations  in  preserving  and  maintaining  peace  and 
security in the world.
The  global  leadership  embodied  by  the  United 
Nations  must  be  strengthened  and  equipped  with 
the  necessary  tools  to  respond  effectively  to  current 
challenges,  while  ensuring  a  better  division  of  labour 
among  Member  States.  My  country  supports  the 
position of the African Union, which seeks Africa’s full 
representation in all United Nations bodies, especially 
the Security Council, which is the main decision-making 
body of our common Organization in matters related to 
international peace and security.
It  is  high  time  to  correct  the  historical  inequality 
that  continues  to  deprive  Africa  of  a  permanent  seat 
on the Security Council with veto power. In the same 
vein, my country joins the African voice in supporting 
an  increase  in  the  number  of  members  elected  by  the 
General  Assembly  to  the  Security  Council.  That  will 
allow  for  a  fairer  and  more  balanced  participation  in 
that organ, which will ensure a more representative role 
in the promotion of international peace.
The  rise  of  terrorism  and  violent  extremism  is  a 
serious  threat  to  international  security.  It  seriously 
undermines  social  cohesion  in  our  countries,  exposes 
our  populations  to  indiscriminate  violence,  generates 
a  succession  of  humanitarian  crises  and  thwarts 
development efforts.
threats.  That  is  the  best  strategy  for  preventing  and 
combating  those  scourges  through  specific  responses 
adapted  to  our  environment  within  the  framework  of 
the global peace and security architecture.
Another  concern  today  is  the  problematic  extent 
of  the  migration  phenomenon.  When  well  managed, 
migration  can  have  a  substantial  positive  impact  on 
the development of countries of origin and significant 
benefits 
for  destination  countries.  When  poorly 
managed,  migration  can  have  serious  consequences 
for  the  well-being  of  countries  and  migrants,  with  a 
high probability of destabilizing national and regional 
security. That is why my country welcomes the holding 
in December of an intergovernmental conference on the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration 
in Marrakech, Morocco, and hopes that the forum will 
lead to constructive proposals.
On an equally important note, our planet continues 
to  suffer  the  effects  of  natural  phenomena  such  as 
earthquakes, rainfall, drought, the rapid advance of the 
desert  and  global  warming.  I  would  therefore  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  encourage  all  States  that  are 
signatories  to  the  Paris  Agreement  under  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to 
join efforts to preserve our shared environment and to 
ensure sustainable development for our planet.
I would also like to take this opportunity to discuss 
the  situation  in  my  country,  the  Central  African 
Republic. But first, I want to honour the memory of all 
those who have fallen in the exercise of their perilous and 
noble peace mission in the Central African Republic. I 
would  like  to  convey  the  tremendous  gratitude  of  the 
people  of  the  Central  African  Republic  to  the  entire 
international community for all its sacrifices to bring 
peace to my country.
For two and a half years, my Government has been 
working  tirelessly  to  restore  the  fundamental  values 
that underpin democracy, freedom and human rights. To 
that end, we are working to re-establish State authority 
by continuing to gradually deploy State administration 
and  services  in  our  provinces  and  to  restore  basic 
social services.
Given  that  grim  reality,  Africa  is  showing  its 
willingness 
to  overcome  regional  divisions,  pool 
resources  and  lay  the  foundations  for  a  holistic  and 
coherent approach that contributes to the development 
of a global doctrine against those prevailing asymmetric 
On the other hand, we deplore the continuing tragic 
and painful attacks perpetrated by the enemies of peace, 
who are driven by dark and selfish interests. They have 
been fuelling the bloody violence since the beginning 
of the year, both in the capital and in the interior of the 
44/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
all 
Notwithstanding 
country, with an increase in violations of human rights 
and international humanitarian law.
those 
the 
Government has maintained the momentum of reforms 
in  the  security  and  defence  sectors,  where  significant 
progress  has  been  made,  namely, 
the  gradual 
deployment  of  the  Central  African internal  defence 
and  security  forces  and  the  implementation  of  the 
national disarmament, demobilization, repatriation and 
reintegration programme.
challenges, 
In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the  commitment  made 
by  the  European  Union  and  our  bilateral  partners  to 
supporting  the  training  and  bolstering  of  our  defence 
and security forces, on the one hand, and to supporting 
the implementation of the national defence plan and the 
deployment of the Central African Armed Forces, with 
a view to setting up a garrison army and establishing 
control  throughout  the  national  territory,  on  the 
other hand.
We are also eternally grateful to the United Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), the United 
States of America, the People’s Republic of China, the 
Russian Federation and France for the material support 
provided  to  the  Central  African  Armed  Forces.  Our 
ambition is to see them become truly operational and to 
contribute, alongside MINUSCA, to the immense effort 
to  stabilize  and  restore  lasting  peace  to  the  Central 
African Republic. But, in order to do so, allow me to 
reiterate from this rostrum our call for the total lifting of 
the arms embargo still weighing on our national army.
The  reconstruction  programme  for  the  Central 
African  Republic  requires  a  coherent  framework  as 
embodied in the National Recovery and Peacebuilding 
Plan, which is being implemented and has already seen 
the Government and its international partners launch 21 
projects regarding basic social services. That tangible 
progress is the fruit of the multifaceted, invaluable and 
commendable support of our strategic partners, such as 
the  World  Bank,  the  African  Development  Bank,  the 
European Union and the French Development Agency.
We  have  also  dedicated  ourselves  to  the  fight 
against  impunity  through  substantial  support  for  the 
rehabilitation  of  the  national  judicial  system,  which, 
among  other  things,  has  enabled  our  criminal  court 
to  hold  two  sessions  this  year  to  try  common  law 
cases. Moreover, the Special Criminal Court will soon 
begin  its  first  investigations,  while  the  Government 
has  established  the  framework  for  the  Truth,  Justice, 
Reparations and Reconciliation Commission.
In that context, one year since its operationalization 
in  September  2017,  the  panel  of  facilitators  of  the 
African  Initiative  for  Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  the 
Central African Republic has concluded two rounds of 
consultations and a meeting with armed groups to hear 
their demands for an inclusive dialogue. I am pleased 
to recall that the African Initiative is the one and only 
reference framework for all those willing to support the 
Central African people on the path to dialogue. In that 
regard, I continue to urge all the friends of the Central 
African Republic to generously assist us through robust 
support  for  the  efforts  of  the  panel  of  facilitators  of 
the African Initiative, whose accomplishments to date 
must be consolidated. My greatest wish is to enable my 
compatriots to resolve their differences once and for all 
in good faith and to strengthen the ancestral ties that 
bind them.
Today,  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
Central  African  Republic  are  firmly  committed  to 
strengthening the democratic process and the economic 
recovery in the country. Given the many challenges that 
beset our history, we will be patient but determined in 
our actions, vigilant and aware of the magnitude of the 
task that lies ahead.
For my part, I can affirm my determination to spare 
no  effort  to  create  the  necessary  conditions  for  the 
reconciliation and the reconstruction of my country in 
order to give back to the Central Africans, my people, 
the  joy  and  the  desire  to  live  together.  I  extend  our 
eternal  gratitude  to  all  our  partners  and  to  the  entire 
international community for their ongoing concern for 
our well-being.
that 
In  conclusion,  I  hope 
international 
community  will  remain  mobilized  alongside 
the 
Central  African  people  and  work  together  with  the 
Government for the recovery of my country. I wish our 
work every success.
the 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Central African Republic for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, President of the 
Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
18-29877
45/62
A/73/PV.9 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak 
Al-Hamad Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the 
State of Kuwait
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Mubarak  Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad Al Sabah, Prime Minister 
of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Sheikh Al Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, it is my pleasure, on behalf of the Government 
and  people  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  to  extend  my 
sincere congratulations to the President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session on her election, as 
well as to her friendly country, Ecuador. I would also 
like to reassure her of our full support in facilitating her 
work  and  fulfilling  her  responsibilities.  We  are  fully 
confident  of  her  ability  to  undertake  that  task,  as  her 
experience in international affairs will have a positive 
impact on conducting this session’s work.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express 
my  country’s  sincere  appreciation  for  the  outstanding 
efforts of her predecessor during his able and successful 
presidency throughout the previous session.
ideas  for 
Allow  me  also  to  commend  the  great  efforts  of 
the  Secretary-General  in  leading  the  Organization 
with  visions  and 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security based on the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter.  We  firmly  support  his 
reform  initiatives,  particularly  those  relating  to  ways 
to settle conflicts peacefully, which promote practical 
rather  than  theoretical  preventive  diplomacy.  That 
would be achieved through a United Nations plan that 
ensures consensus on effective reforms in order for the 
international organization to play its desired role.
Preventing  and  resolving  conflicts  by  peaceful 
means continue to be one of the most important reasons 
for the establishment of the United Nations. After the 
bloody  experiences  of  the  First  and  Second  World 
26/09/2018
Wars,  despite  their  unprecedented  and  catastrophic 
consequences  for  humankind,  those  wars  constituted 
the  genuine  motivation  for  developing  a  meaningful 
international system to protect our present and future 
generations from the scourge of war.
The  United  Nations  has  played  a  critical  and 
historical role in the past seven decades, during which 
it has developed its working methods and expanded its 
mandates  to  include  humanitarian,  political,  security, 
development and economic issues throughout the world. 
However,  growing  challenges,  increasingly  severe 
conflicts and the risks that they pose for international 
peace  and  security  have  shown  the  urgent  need  to 
enhance the ability of the United Nations to adequately 
respond to the challenges facing our world today. Those 
challenges  include  the  spread  of  violence,  extremism 
and  terrorism,  as  well  as  the  dangers  pertaining  to 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the 
continuous violations of human rights, climate change 
and others.
The proposals and plans that the Secretary-General 
has  introduced  to  restructure  the  Secretariat,  with  a 
view to enhancing its effectiveness and increasing its 
efficiency in order to ensure that its efforts in ending 
conflicts  are  not  wasted,  are  a  preliminary  important 
step to transform the issue of reform from hypothetical 
discussion  to  realistic  application.  In  that  regard,  we 
stress once again our support for that step, which is part 
of the expectations that the peoples of the world have 
of the Organization, considered to be a safe haven and 
guarantor of global peace and stability.
Nine months into our non-permanent membership 
of  the  Security  Council  for  the  period  2018-2019,  the 
State of Kuwait has become increasingly aware of the 
need  to  reform  the  Security  Council  to  make  it  more 
capable  of  shouldering  its  responsibilities  and  facing 
the  growing  challenges  of  today’s  world.  The  reform 
must reflect the international reality in which we live 
and  strengthen  the  credibility  and  legitimacy  of  the 
Security  Council,  while  ensuring  permanent  Arab 
representation commensurate with the number of Arab 
Member States and the size of their contribution to the 
various activities of the United Nations.
Since its first day as a non-permanent member of 
the Security Council, the State of Kuwait has adopted 
an objective approach in addressing various issues on 
the  Council’s  agenda.  Such  an  approach  is  a  realistic 
reflection  of  its  foreign  policy,  which  is  based  on 
46/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
respect for the sovereignty and independence of States 
and non-interference in their internal affairs. We also 
believe  in  the  noble  objective  of  the  United  Nations, 
which  is  that  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.  Our  involvement  in  the  Security  Council’s 
agenda  was  not  constrained  by  any  cultural,  ethnic, 
political  or  geographical  consideration,  although  its 
agenda is replete with Middle Eastern issues.
international humanitarian law, by detaining thousands 
of Palestinians in its prisons and detention centres and 
through its repeated military aggressions on the Gaza 
Strip,  during  which  it  does  not  take  into  account  the 
protection of civilians in armed conflict. It disregards 
the  agreed  international  measures  under  the  Geneva 
Convention  relative  to  the  Protection  of  Civilian 
Persons in Time of War.
Through  our  non-permanent  membership  of  the 
Security  Council,  the  State  of  Kuwait  seeks  to  go 
beyond routine participation in the work of the Council. 
We aim to broaden our horizons in order to elevate the 
sovereignty of international law, with all its branches, 
including  respect  for  human  rights,  building  a  better 
future  for  the  world’s  population  and  avoiding  any 
selectivity or partiality in addressing the various issues. 
That trend is based on the Charter of the United Nations 
and  on  the  diplomatic  legacy  of  the  State  of  Kuwait. 
It gives preference to achieving peaceful solutions and 
promoting mediation efforts between parties. It reflects 
how we address the various issues and crises ravaging 
our  world  today.  Human  beings  and  their  inherent 
rights remain the pillars of our foreign policy, based on 
the directives of His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad 
Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah  —  may  God  protect  him  —  the 
Emir of the State of Kuwait, who was honoured by the 
Organization as a leader of humanitarian work.
The  Palestinian  question  is  one  of  the  most 
important  and  long-standing  issues  on  the  agenda  of 
the  Security  Council.  This  year  marks  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the adoption in August 1948 of Security 
Council resolution 56 (1948). It was the first time the 
Council  addressed  that  protracted  issue.  Successive 
resolutions were adopted by the Security Council and 
the General Assembly, as well as multiple international 
and  regional  initiatives,  to  lay  the  foundations  for 
peace  in  the  Middle  East.  However,  Israel  persists  in 
its  intransigence  and  continues  to  reject  and  ignore 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy.  It  continues 
its  expansionist  policies  through  the  establishment  of 
illegal settlements on occupied Palestinian territories. 
Such  action  constitutes  a  significant  challenge  to  and 
blatant  disregard  for  implementing  resolutions  of 
international  legitimacy,  the  most  recent  of  which  is 
resolution 2334 (2016), which calls on Israel to stop its 
illegal settlement practices.
Furthermore,  Israel  continues  to  desecrate  the 
sanctity of the holy Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, in 
addition to its continued violations of human rights and 
Given  that  the  State  of  Kuwait  seeks  the  full 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions,  we 
submitted a draft resolution at the Security Council in 
May, which repeatedly called on Israel, the occupying 
Power,  to  immediately  cease  the  use  of  illegitimate 
force  against  civilians.  That  draft  resolution  also 
called for international protection to ensure the safety 
and  security  of  Palestinian  civilians  in  the  occupied 
territories.  Although  the  draft  resolution  was  not 
adopted,  the  State  of  Kuwait  will  spare  no  effort  to 
support the legitimate political rights of the Palestinian 
people  until  the  occupation  ends  and  permanent,  just 
and  comprehensive  peace  is  achieved,  in  accordance 
with the principle of land for peace and the Arab Peace 
Initiative,  while  implementing  all  relevant  resolutions 
of international legitimacy, which call for the two-State 
solution  and  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State, 
based on the 4 June 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital.
The Syrian crisis has entered its eighth year. The 
international  community  remains  to  a  large  extent 
unable  to  find  a  solution  that  ends  its  devastating 
consequences and horrific losses. Syrian citizens have 
remained the main victims of a conflict that has claimed 
the  lives  of  more  than  400,000  people,  in  addition  to 
more than 12 million people who have become refugees 
and displaced persons.
the  delegation  of 
The  State  of  Kuwait, 
in  cooperation  and 
coordination  with 
the  friendly 
Kingdom  of  Sweden,  put  forward  resolution  2401 
(2018)  on  the  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria,  which 
was  unanimously  adopted  by  the  Security  Council.  It 
was  a  positive  sign  of  the  solidarity  and  unity  of  the 
Council to end that human suffering, stop the hostilities 
and guarantee humanitarian access to those in need in 
Syria in a timely manner. Yet, today we deplore the fact 
that resolution 2401 (2018) has not been implemented 
on the ground.
Such  efforts  take  place  in  the  context  of  the 
humanitarian  role  played  by  the  State  of  Kuwait  to 
18-29877
47/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
address  the  deteriorating  humanitarian  conditions  in 
Syria  since  the  beginning  of  the  crisis.  In  the  course 
of  such  efforts,  we  have  hosted  three  international 
donor  conferences  to  galvanize  support  to  ease  the 
humanitarian  situation  in  Syria.  My  country  has 
made  voluntary  contributions  totalling  $1.6  billion  at 
those conferences.
In  that  regard,  we  reiterate  our  principled  and 
unwavering  position  with  regard  to  the  Syrian  crisis. 
We reject any military solution to the crisis and stress 
the  need  to  step  up  efforts  to  bring  all  parties  to  the 
conflict together and start a dialogue in order to reach 
a peaceful settlement, in line with the relevant Security 
Council  resolutions,  in  particular  resolution  2254 
(2015). The goal is to achieve a political reality agreed 
upon  by  all  components  of  the  Syrian  people.  That 
should preserve the unity and independence of Syria in 
order to attain the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian 
people  and  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  crimes  are 
brought to justice and enjoy no impunity.
Our  brothers 
in  Yemen  are 
facing  critical 
unprecedented  challenges,  with  serious  implications 
at the political, humanitarian and economic levels as a 
result of the coup d’état against the legitimate authorities 
by the Houthis in September 2014. The Houthis continue 
to  reject  the  implementation  of  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions, as well as international initiatives 
to achieve a political settlement. They remain a threat 
to the security and stability of the region by launching 
ballistic  missiles  against  the  sisterly  Kingdom  of 
Saudi  Arabia.  Such  action  threatens  the  safety  of 
navigation at Bab al-Mandab strait and the Red Sea. We 
strongly condemn such actions, which are contrary to 
international law and international humanitarian law.
In  that  regard,  we  underscore  once  again  our 
full  commitment  to  respecting  Yemen’s  sovereignty, 
independence and territorial integrity, while rejecting 
interference in Yemeni internal affairs. We stress our 
full support for the constitutional legitimacy of Yemen, 
as  the  cradle  of  Arab  civilization.  We  also  stress  the 
importance  of  prioritizing  the  political  solution  to 
the  crisis  by  resorting  to  the  three  agreed  terms  of 
reference: the Gulf Cooperation Council initiative and 
its  Implementation  Mechanism,  the  outcomes  of  the 
Comprehensive  National  Dialogue  and  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  in  particular  resolution 
2216 (2015).
Given  Kuwait’s  preventive  diplomacy,  which  is 
based  on  mediation  and  political  settlement,  for  over 
100  days  in  2016  my  country  hosted  the  political 
consultations  between  the  Yemeni  parties,  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  We  underscore  our 
readiness to host our Yemeni brethren for the signing 
of a final agreement whenever it is reached by Yemeni 
parties. We stress our ongoing support for the efforts of 
the United Nations and those of the Special Envoy of 
the Secretary-General for Yemen to achieve a peaceful 
solution to the crisis without delay.
The  coup  d’état  against  Yemen’s  legitimacy  has 
consequences that play a major role in the deterioration 
of  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the  country.  Such 
consequences have led to frightening and unprecedented 
statistics. In fact, the Yemeni people continue to suffer, 
as they struggle to survive daily. The State of Kuwait 
has not ignored the needs of its brothers in Yemen. We 
have  contributed  a  total  of  $350  million.  We  pledged 
$250 million of that amount at the Geneva conference 
in April, where it was handed over in full to the United 
Nations  agencies  and  its  humanitarian  bodies.  The 
purpose of that contribution was to mitigate the serious 
deterioration at the humanitarian, health and economic 
levels.  However,  that  deterioration  will  not  stop  until 
security and stability in Yemen are restored, which will 
in turn help to maintain its sovereignty and territorial 
integrity and re-establish harmony among all groups in 
the country.
The growing phenomenon of terrorism and violent 
extremism in the world, particularly in the Middle East, 
is an unprecedented challenge that has stricken the world 
order at its core. It has happened through the ideologies 
of secretive and rogue organizations, under the cloak of 
Islam, to achieve their destructive intentions.
The  so-called  Da’esh  terrorist  organization  has 
perpetrated  savage  crimes, 
including  widespread 
murder and destruction in various areas of the region. 
In  response,  the  Global  Coalition  against  Da’esh  was 
established, a development for which the State of Kuwait 
has provided material and moral support, in line with 
the  conventions  on  combating  terrorism  adopted  by 
the League of Arab States, the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation  and  the  United  Nations  from  1999  to 
2001. Our brothers in Iraq were the first to suffer from 
the  crimes  of  that  terrorist  organization.  Cooperation 
between  the  international  community,  represented  by 
the Security Council and the Government of Iraq, has 
48/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
played a highly effective role in clearing Iraqi territories 
of that terrorist and dangerous cancer.
for confronting challenges to a comprehensive phase of 
radical and people-centred solutions.
Proceeding from our conviction that post-war peace 
and  security  cannot  be  achieved  without  redressing 
the  impact  of  conflicts  and  their  devastating  effects, 
which  undermine  humankind,  my  country  hosted  the 
International  Conference  for  the  Reconstruction  of 
Iraq. At that conference, pledges exceeded $30 billion, 
of which the State of Kuwait contributed $2 billion. In 
that regard, we underscore our firm position in favour 
of providing all forms of support in order to assist Iraq 
in  fulfilling  its  outstanding  commitments  under  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions and restoring its 
role and position in the region and the world.
At  the  regional  level,  and  based  on  the  same 
principles of good-neighbourliness and non-interference 
in the internal affairs of States, as set out in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law,  we  once 
again  call  on  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  adopt 
serious  confidence-building  measures  to  establish 
relations  based  on  cooperation,  mutual  respect  and 
common  interests.  That  would  serve  to  direct  efforts 
and  capabilities  towards  promoting  development  and 
construction, and would reflect the hopes of all peoples 
in the region for a life of security and stability.
While confirming what I said earlier about the role 
that  my  country  has  been  playing,  which  is  based  on 
prioritizing  humanitarian  issues,  and  in  response  to 
the tragic situation facing the refugees of the Rohingya 
Muslim minority in Myanmar, the State of Kuwait helped 
to  organize  the  Security  Council  visit  to  Bangladesh 
and Myanmar. The aim of that visit was to discuss the 
refugee crisis, become familiar with the situation and 
assess  the  steps  taken  by  the  authorities  of  the  two 
countries towards one of the worst humanitarian crises 
in the world. We will pursue our efforts, as a member of 
the Security Council, to cooperate and coordinate with 
all  parties  concerned  in  order  to  guarantee  the  safe, 
voluntary and dignified return of the refugees and hold 
accountable all those responsible for crimes committed 
against them.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development is one of the most successful achievements 
of the United Nations. It complements the efforts of the 
international  community  based  on  the  fundamental 
rules  emanating  from  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, which achieved their noble objectives and spurred 
the United Nations to shift from defining relative goals 
Meeting 
our 
obligations 
international 
and 
achieving  global  solidarity  represent  a  major  leap 
towards  attaining  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
in  order  to  eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms;  ensure 
that  all  human  beings  enjoy  equal  rights  to  dignity, 
education, health and political participation; empower 
young  people  and  women;  and  address  the  effects  of 
climate  change  in  the  context  of  the  historic  Paris 
Agreement.  Environmental  degradation  is  one  of  the 
main obstacles to attaining those Goals, in accordance 
with the principle of shared responsibility, taking into 
account the different responsibilities and burdens.
The issue of migrants and refugees is perhaps one 
of  the  most  prominent  challenges  facing  sustainable 
development.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  the  2018 
international  conference  on  migration,  to  be  held  in 
the city of Marrakech in December, at which the global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  will 
be adopted.
implement 
As  the  State  of  Kuwait  seeks  to  improve  the 
welfare  of  people,  we  have  taken  effective  measures 
to 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  as  a  priority  of  all  our  national  plans 
and  programmes,  with  the  participation  of  all  sectors 
of  society.  That  was  embodied  in  the  future  national 
vision for a new Kuwait to be accomplished by 2035, 
seeking  to  transform  Kuwait  into  a  leading  regional, 
financial, commercial, cultural and institutional centre.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  always  shouldered  its 
regional  and  international  responsibilities  to  achieve 
development  in  its  various  economic,  social  and 
environmental  dimensions.  We  have  made  major 
strides in implementing the initiatives of His Highness 
the Emir of the State of Kuwait to promote international 
partnerships.  Such  partnerships  complement 
the 
ongoing  history  of  Kuwait  in  the  development  and 
humanitarian  fields.  In  fact,  Kuwait  spared  no  effort 
in  offering  development  assistance  to  developing 
countries,  as  well  as  to  least  developed  countries, 
totalling  106  countries  to  date.  We  play  our  role  as 
an  active  Member  of  the  United  Nations  through  our 
various institutions, in particular the Kuwait Fund for 
Arab  Economic  Development.  We  provide  grants  and 
soft  loans  for  infrastructure  projects  in  developing 
countries.  Such  assistance  is  more  than  double  the 
internationally agreed upon percentage.
18-29877
49/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
I would like to underscore that the State of Kuwait 
is  committed  to  the  international  multilateral  system 
and to the purposes and principles of the United Nations 
Charter.  We  believe  in  the  importance  and  necessity 
of  advancing  all  efforts  to  guarantee  the  continuity 
and  contribution  of  our  long-standing  Organization 
by  having  all  States  fulfil  their  commitments  and 
responsibilities  under  international  conventions  and 
conferences.  That  will  contribute  to  finding  fair 
and  just  solutions  to  global  threats  and  challenges 
and  to  accomplishing  the  lofty  goal  of  maintaining 
international peace and security.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait for the statement he has 
just made.
His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister, 
Minister of State, Minister for Communication 
and Media, and Minister for Worship of the 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
The  Acting  President 
in  Arabic): 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  State,  Minister  for 
Communications and Media, and Minister for Worship 
of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
(spoke 
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State,  Minister  for  Communications  and  Media 
and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Xavier 
Bettel, Prime Minister, Minister of State, Minister for 
Communications and Media and Minister for Worship 
of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Bettel  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 
Yesterday,  our  Secretary-General  provided  his  view 
of  the  international  situation  and  the  challenges  that 
we  all  face  (see  A/73/PV.6).  His  view  was  a  mixed 
one, to say the least. We are experiencing a decline in 
multilateralism on all fronts and a challenge to the basis 
of the international system based on respect for the rule 
of law.
However, multilateralism and respect for the rule of 
law ensure that democracies can play an international 
role.  They  are  even  a  prerequisite  for  the  exercise  of 
their sovereignty. Nowhere is the need for and evidence 
of  the  merits  of  multilateralism  more  present  than  in 
common projects to establish and maintain peace. The 
European Union is an excellent example in that regard. 
I  am  part  of  the  generation  born  in  Europe  that  has 
never experienced war. It appears that we take that for 
granted.  However,  we  must  not  forget  that  there  are 
conflicts just beyond our borders.
the 
that  regard, 
The  same  holds  true  in  the  area  of  international 
trade.  In 
increasing  number  of 
multilateral  measures  and  counter-measures  will 
eventually  undermine  our  growth.  We  are  strongly 
in  favour  of  resuming  negotiations  and  constructive 
engagement  through  the  World  Trade  Organization. 
If  that  does  not  occur,  all  parties  are  at  the  risk  of 
losing out. That would entail being open to discussions 
on sensitive and difficult subjects.
Some  challenges  can  be  solved  only  at  the  global 
level.  Migration  is  the  best  example  of  that  kind  of 
challenge. Demographic trends suggest that it is likely 
that the issue will be on the agenda for a few generations. 
We  hope  that  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly 
and  regular  migration  to  be  adopted  in  Marrakech 
in  December  this  year  will  provide  a  framework  for 
understanding  the  global  phenomenon  in  countries  of 
origin,  transit  and  destination.  It  should  also  lead  to 
better management of migration flows at the regional 
level.  In  the  European  Union,  we  know  that  it  should 
allow  for  the  establishment  of  common  policies  and 
solidarity  mechanisms  among  Member  States  with 
regard to accepting refugees. It is regrettable that some 
countries  have  forgotten  that  their  citizens  were  once 
refugees from somewhere in the world.
My  country  has  made  considerable  efforts  since 
2015  to  receive  asylum  seekers,  including  through 
resettlement  and  relocation  mechanisms.  The  global 
compact’s  comprehensive  framework  for  migration 
has made it possible to determine what is expected of 
countries of origin and destination, but also — and this 
is very important — what is expected of migrants with 
regard to their integration.
The issue of integration has often been linked to the 
rise of populism in Europe. Let me inform the Assembly 
that  countries  of  various  sizes  within  the  European 
Union, including large ones, had populist Governments 
50/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
before the 2015 migration crisis. Moreover, those same 
countries now challenge the founding principles of the 
European  Union  pertaining  to  respect  for  the  rule  of 
law. I would like to note today — and condemn — the 
fact that some political parties have become successful 
by exploiting the weakest.
Of course, a clear distinction must be made between 
political  refugees  and  economic  migrants.  Those  who 
want  to  survive  —  those  who  flee  rape,  violence, 
persecution, imprisonment and death —must be able to 
find safe haven on our continent.
We  have  heard  warnings  from  the  Secretary-
General  and  from  the  scientific  community:  if  we 
continue  along  the  current  path,  we  will  not  achieve 
the  objectives  of  the  Paris  Agreement.  We  do  not 
know  exactly  how  much  humankind  contributes  to 
global warming or to climate change, but we have the 
facts, which, month after month, year after year, show 
with  certainty  that  we  must  act  because  we  have  a 
responsibility to future generations. I can only welcome 
all initiatives to maintain or restore the momentum of 
the Paris Agreement, including the Secretary-General’s 
proposal to convene another climate summit next year 
on the sidelines of the General Assembly.
Managing  climate  change  is  one  of  the  most 
important  goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. The implementation of the 2030 Agenda’s 
17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  is  progressing 
well,  and  the  international  community  is  engaged,  in 
particular through national plans, keeping in mind that 
each Member State is free to focus on its own priorities. 
It  is  clear  that  the  issue  of  financing  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals remains a problem.
With regard to climate change, specific mechanisms 
have  been  developed  nationally  and  internationally 
and  through  the  private  sector.  Mechanisms  exist 
but  resources  remain  insufficient.  Luxembourg  now 
has  a  green  stock  exchange  with  a  capitalization  of 
$50  billion —  the  largest  of  its  kind.  We  also  have  a 
goal to create similar mechanisms for other Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  However,  the  response  of  the 
financial  sector  remains  lukewarm.  That  is  because, 
first, 
the 
potential  of  new  markets  and,  secondly,  compliance 
obligations  are  imposed  on  supervisory  authorities  in 
developed countries.
traditional  operators  are  unaware  of 
As  we  know,  the  share  of  official  development 
assistance  is  decreasing,  and  other  mechanisms  must 
be found to shore up the lack of resources, in particular 
for the least developed countries. The need to diversify 
the  sources  of  development  assistance  cannot  relieve 
us  of  our  official  development  assistance  obligations. 
For  its  part,  my  country  will  continue  to  devote 
1  per  cent  of  its  gross  national  income  to  official 
development assistance.
Like  the  majority  of  countries,  we  experienced  a 
rather challenging period in terms of budgetary matters. 
Reducing  the  budget  allocated  to  cooperation  would 
have  been  welcomed  by  some.  I  mention  that  simply 
because,  in  developed  countries  with  considerable 
income, we wonder if we should have a hot meal or a 
cold  meal  but,  in  some  countries,  mothers  wonder  if 
they  will  be  able  to  feed  their  children  at  all  for  the 
next few days. We forget how lucky we are. I believe 
it  is  important  to  share  what  we  have.  I  know  that 
there  is  consensus  on  that  issue  in  my  country.  Even 
after  legislative  elections  in  two  weeks,  I  believe  the 
consensus  will  remain  and  that  the  next  Government 
will follow suit.
The effectiveness of development aid is of course not 
only dependent on financial resources. In that regard, 
the  Secretary-General’s  reform  of  the  development 
sector  has  our  full  support.  In  particular,  the  policy 
and  practice  of  United  Nations  development  agencies 
should be aligned with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  Coordination  among  agencies, 
the 
development of joint projects and the establishment of 
a  new  resident  coordinator  system  could  give  us  the 
flexibility and adaptability necessary for the effective 
implementation of development projects on the ground.
the  Secretary-General’s  reforms 
because we believe that our country plays a special role 
in the area of development. However, reforms in the area 
of peace and security and within the management pillar 
of the Secretariat are important and should receive the 
same strong support. Such efforts must succeed because 
they  also  contribute  to  ensuring  lasting  support  for 
multilateral  institutions.  Reform  in  the  area  of  peace 
and  security  should  enable  the  deployment  of  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations to be more effective 
and  flexible,  while  bearing  in  mind  that  deployment 
modalities do not always meet needs.
I  highlighted 
Africa is one of the regions where the United Nations 
is  most  present  through  peacekeeping  operations, 
development assistance and humanitarian programmes 
and  projects.  West  Africa  and  the  Sahel  are  now  a 
18-29877
51/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
hotbed  of  instability,  terrorism,  organized  crime  and 
trafficking of all kinds. Only through coordinated and 
concerted action with regional and national stakeholders 
and  international  institutions  can  the  burgeoning 
number  of  threats  in  the  region  be  contained.  For  its 
part,  my  country  focuses  a  considerable  percentage 
of  its  development  assistance  on  countries  in  that 
particular  region.  By  way  of  example,  let  me  outline 
our efforts in Mali.
Our  programme  for  that  country  has  a  budget  of 
€61  million  for  the  period  2015-2019.  Luxembourg 
is  one  of  the  main  donors  to  the  Office  of  the 
Independent  Observer,  responsible  for  evaluating  the 
implementation  of  the  ceasefire  agreement  between 
the Government and armed groups in the north of the 
country. Since 2012, it has funded the establishment of 
the  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  for  Mali  to 
investigate violations of human rights and international 
humanitarian  law.  My  country  also  contributes  to  the 
development of a compliance framework for respect for 
human rights and international humanitarian law to be 
used  in  operations  of  the  Joint  Force  of  the  Group  of 
Five for the Sahel (G-5 Sahel).
We allocate approximately €1.15 million to security 
and defence. Starting this year, my country has also been 
participating  in  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali  and  deploys 
army  officers  to  provide  air  support.  In  line  with 
commitments made during the Brussels conference in 
February,  Luxembourg  will  contribute  approximately 
€500,000  in  medical  support  to  the  G-5  Sahel  Joint 
Force and €600,000 to build a field hospital in Sévaré. 
Luxembourg’s  contribution  clearly  remains  modest.  I 
would  simply  like  to  show  what  a  small  country  like 
Luxembourg  can  contribute  when  international  and 
regional coordination structures are put in place.
The situation in the Near and Middle East, as well 
as  in  the  southern  Mediterranean  region  of  Libya, 
inspires  less  optimism.  It  must  be  highlighted  that 
the stalemate in the peace process between Israel and 
Palestine  remains  completely  unresolved,  and  the 
situation, it must be said, has deteriorated since the last 
session of the General Assembly. We will never tire of 
recalling  the  principles  of  international  law  that  must 
form the basis for peace. There can be no doubt about 
Israel’s right to exist or about the right of Palestinians 
to their own State. The two-State solution is the only 
fair and lasting solution.
The  explosive  situation  in  Libya  is  the  result  of 
tensions  that  are  specific  to  Libya’s  tribal  structure. 
It  is  also  due  to  the  fact  that  the  country  serves  as  a 
sounding  board  for  tensions  in  the  Sahel  and  Arab-
Muslim  worlds.  The  interest  of  the  international 
community,  primarily  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Special Envoy, is therefore multifaceted. The political 
solution  reached  among  the  Libyan  parties  will  also 
determine the control of migration flows to Europe. It 
is obviously not a question of locking up the migrants 
in camps, in intolerable and disgraceful conditions of 
slavery, in the twenty-first century.
The  war  in  Syria  has  led  to  a  huge  humanitarian 
crisis.  It  has  claimed  the  lives  of  countless  people. 
Half  of  the  population  is  displaced,  either  internally 
or  abroad.  After  the  tragedy  of  eastern  Ghouta  at  the 
beginning of the year, more than 3 million people are 
now threatened in the Idlib region. The means used in 
the  war  by  the  warring  parties  have  been  extreme  in 
terms of their violence and cruelty, including the use of 
chemical weapons, which is both beyond understanding 
and unacceptable.
It is simply incomprehensible and shameful that the 
international  community  has  been  unable,  by  means 
of  veto,  to  renew  an  instrument  designed  to  establish 
the  facts  and  responsibilities  for  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons. We hope that the International, Impartial and 
Independent  Mechanism  to  assist  in  the  Investigation 
and  Prosecution  of  those  Responsible  for  the  Most 
Serious Crimes under International Law committed in 
the Syrian Arab Republic since March 2011, established 
by resolution 71/248, will have access to data collected 
by  the  Joint  Investigation  Mechanism  so  that  it  can 
ensure justice when the time comes.
The  humanitarian  commitment  of  my  country  in 
the  Syrian  conflict  is  by  far  our  most  significant  and 
stands at €7.5 million per year for the period 2016-2020, 
as I personally announced at the conference in London. 
Luxembourg  will  also  participate  in  the  latest  appeal 
for  additional  contributions  from  the  Department 
of  Political  Affairs  in  support  of  the  United  Nations 
political efforts in Syria. It will also provide an amount 
of €200,000 to allow the Mechanism to be operational. 
The tragedy of the war in Syria has led to a situation 
that  is  all  the  more  intractable,  especially  since  it 
combines the interplay of powers, regional rivalries and 
religious conflict.
52/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
The  humanitarian  tragedy  in  Yemen  has  caused 
destruction,  displacement,  hunger  and  cholera.  The 
war  raging  there  has  also  been  extremely  cruel.  We 
must expeditiously put in place the means to establish 
accountability  and  fight  impunity.  The  role  of  the 
United Nations, in particular its Special Envoy and the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs, 
is  crucial  if  we  are  to  avoid  further  aggravating  the 
situation and to pave the way for a political solution.
In the two foregoing conflicts, the regional Powers 
play  an  important,  although  not  always  positive, 
role. That is the case for Iran. We share the concerns 
expressed by the United States and its allies regarding 
Iran’s  influence  in  the  Middle  East,  which  is  likely 
to  destabilize  the  situation  in  many  neighbouring 
countries. From our point of view, however, that does 
not mean that we should call into question Iran’s nuclear 
deal, which we believe, if not perfect, provides tangible 
guarantees  in  the  field  of  nuclear  non-proliferation. 
We  regret  that  the  United  States  has  denounced  that 
agreement, which was the subject of Security Council 
resolution  2231  (2015)  and  continues  to  bind  the 
international community.
With regard to nuclear non-proliferation, we hope 
that the process initiated between the United States and 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  with  the 
support of South Korea, will lead to concrete results in 
the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
In  addition  to  the  trend  towards  unilateralism 
and  the  reconsideration  of  the  rule  of  law,  we  must 
unfortunately note a deterioration in the human rights 
situation  across  the  globe.  That  is  true  in  conflict 
situations,  where  the  use  of  intimidation  policies, 
ethnic  cleansing  and  widespread  sexual  violence  is 
increasingly  common,  particularly  among  non-State 
actors. It is also true due to the phenomenon whereby 
the very existence of certain categories of human rights 
is  denied  and  the  legitimacy  of  certain  human  rights 
institutions is being called into question.
The  situation  of  the  Rohingya  in  Myanmar  is 
emblematic  of  such  a  development.  There  is  a  tangle 
of ethnic cleansing, massacres, intimidation and rape, 
with an entire population forced to flee without much 
that  the  international  community  can  do,  except  to 
organize  reception  in  a  neighbouring  territory  and  to 
simply  note  the  scale  of  the  disaster.  In  that  regard, 
one  of  the  positive  developments  is  the  fact  that  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) has been seized of 
the situation because more than 700,000 refugees have 
been driven into Bangladesh, which is a State party to 
the Rome Statute. We fully support the work of the ICC 
on that issue, as well as in the other investigations that 
it conducts.
We do not accept that the legitimacy and the very 
existence  of  the  Court  should  be  questioned  on  the 
pretext  of  State  sovereignty.  In  accordance  with  the 
principle of complementarity, the ICC intervenes only 
in the event of the failure of States to act.
Our support to the Human Rights Council and its 
work remains as strong as ever. We see the institution 
as a fundamental pillar of the United Nations system. 
The  Council  can  be  reformed  without  challenging  its 
mandate  and  modus  operandi.  We  have  supported 
efforts in that regard. However, we regret the decision 
of the United States to withdraw its participation from 
the Human Rights Council, even though it was an ally 
in the defence of human rights at the global level. We 
hope  that  reform  efforts  will  continue,  and  we  will 
also contribute to them from within, if Luxembourg is 
elected to the Council for the term 2022-2024.
Human  rights  cover  many  facets,  such  as  civil 
and  political  rights  and  economic  and  social  rights, 
to mention only the most traditional ones, but there is 
also  a  new  category  of  rights,  including  sexual  rights 
and reproductive health rights. We regret that the latter 
are  too  often  undermined  not  only  in  their  principles 
but  also  in  their  exercise,  including  through  United 
Nations  programmes  and  projects  aimed  at  giving 
women and girls control over their lives and access to 
family planning.
The  United  Nations 
legitimacy 
In  that  context,  my  country  provides  financial 
support  to  the  programmes  of  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  and  UN-Women,  as  well 
as  the  Girls  Not  Brides  initiative,  in  the  amount  of 
€600,000 and €400,000, respectively, for 2019. We also 
support a UNICEF-UNFPA project to eliminate genital 
mutilation, which stands at €400,000.
gives 
to 
multilateralism  and  all  other  organizations  and 
institutions that call for it. That is why we must tirelessly 
take up that principle. Only then can we undertake the 
important work that lies ahead and face the challenges 
of  globalization.  A  return  to  the  private  preserve  of 
nationalism has never been an option for Luxembourg, 
and  neither  is  it  today  for  anybody  —  above  all,  the 
countries in this Hall.
18-29877
53/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank 
the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  State,  Minister  for 
Communications and Media and Minister for Worship 
of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State,  Minister  for  Communications  and  Media 
and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Mark Rutte, Prime Minister 
and Minister for General Affairs of the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Mark 
Rutte, Prime Minister and Minister for General Affairs 
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Rutte (Netherlands): In 1999, in his message 
for  the  New  Millennium,  the  late  Kofi  Annan  spoke 
words that still ring true almost two decades later:
“More than ever before in human history, we share 
a common destiny. We can master it only if we face 
it together. And that, my friends, is why we have 
the United Nations.”
Mr. Annan’s legacy is one of international cooperation, 
and  of  fighting  illiteracy,  poverty,  inequality  and 
climate  change  as  root  causes  of  conflict  and  human 
rights  violations.  Above  all,  his  is  a  legacy  of  hope, 
and  a  firm  belief  that  progress  is  the  unifying  theme 
in human history. The Millennium Development Goals 
proved him right, and it is up to us, the leaders of the 
united nations of the world, to carry this legacy forward 
and make the Sustainable Development Goals and the 
Paris Agreement a reality.
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  remains  firmly 
international  cooperation.  In  fact, 
committed 
we  have  enshrined  the  principle  in  Article  90  of  our 
to 
Constitution, which states that “the Government shall 
promote  the  development  of  the  international  legal 
order”. That provision reflects our moral compass, but 
it  also  reflects  our  history  as  an  open,  seafaring  and 
trading nation, and the fact that our Kingdom consists 
of four countries, in Europe and the Caribbean: Aruba, 
Curaçao,  the  Netherlands  and  Sint  Maarten.  We  have 
therefore understood for many centuries the necessity 
and benefits of a transnational outlook.
That  is  my  core  message  today.  We  need  a 
transnational  outlook  to  master  the  challenges  we 
face. There is no conflict between multilateralism and 
national  interest,  but  rather  the  contrary.  After  all, 
what country does not benefit from a stable and secure 
international  environment,  free  and  fair  world  trade, 
peace instead of armed conflict, prosperity instead of 
poverty, and equality instead of inequality? And what 
country can achieve those goals alone?
Those are rhetorical questions, of course, but once 
we acknowledge that, and we should act in consequence, 
which means we must embrace multilateralism. To the 
people of the Kingdom of the Netherlands this has only 
become more evident in the aftermath of the downing 
of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17. It remains an open 
wound  for  my  country,  and  for  all  grieving  nations 
that  had  nationals  on  board.  We  are  grateful  for  the 
support of the international community, as expressed in 
Security Council resolution 2166 (2014). We hope that 
together we will see justice done.
In  May,  the  Joint  Investigation  Team  presented 
conclusive  evidence  about  the  origin  of  the  missile 
launcher that was used to down the aircraft. This has 
only  bolstered  our  resolve  that,  in  the  interest  of  the 
victims  and  their  loved  ones,  the  full  truth  must  be 
revealed,  justice  served  and  responsibility  accepted. 
In  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  2166 
(2014),  we  call  on  all  States  to  fully  cooperate  with 
ongoing efforts to this end.
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  rules-based 
multilateral  order  that  arose  after  the  Second  World 
War  has  brought  great  things  to  many  people.  That 
goes especially for the United Nations and the General 
Assembly.  And  yet,  for  many  other  countries  and 
peoples,  the  global  order  has  not  brought  the  same 
benefits.  In  many  parts  of  the  world,  peace,  stability 
and prosperity cannot be taken for granted.
The  multilateral  system  is  therefore  not  perfect, 
and it is under pressure. The playing field is changing 
54/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
as  we  speak.  Some  countries,  for  a  range  of  reasons, 
have  begun  to  embrace  a  different  approach.  Sadly, 
more and more often, compromise is being rejected in 
favour  of  polarization  and  perceived  self-interest.  We 
are witnessing a worrisome trend: some countries are 
shifting  from  a  constructive  to  a  combative  approach 
in  the  multilateral  environment.  What  is  more,  rising 
repression,  human  rights  violations  and  shrinking 
freedom worldwide are a grave concern. Accountability 
is  often  lacking.  And  when  the  multilateral  system 
becomes paralysed, it is innocent people who suffer.
Syria  is  a  case  in  point.  In  his  most  recent 
annual  report,  Secretary-General  Guterres  wrote  that 
“working  together  multilaterally  is  not  optional;  it  is 
the  only  answer”  (A/73/1,  para.  148).  I  fully  agree.  I 
believe  in  constructive  multilateralism.  I  believe  in 
the  power  of  principle,  not  the  principle  of  power,  to 
guide us towards a better future for more people. Our 
best — perhaps even our only — way forward is not to 
give in to defeatism and cynicism but to keep working 
to improve the system, step by step.
In  that  regard,  let  me  emphasize  once  again  that 
the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  firmly  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s reform agenda and that we applaud 
its  initial  results.  The  recent  agreement  on  United 
Nations reform sends a strong message of broad support 
for change. But, as always, the proof of the pudding is 
in  the  eating.  Now  we  have  to  put  words  into  action, 
and by “we” I mean the United Nations itself and all the 
Member States.
The  United  Nations  system  must  be  made  fit  for 
purpose to deliver on the 2030 Sustainable Development 
Agenda,  which  is  the  ultimate  prevention  agenda. 
Take,  for  example,  the  staggering  number  of  3,000 
separate  United  Nations  offices  around  the  world, 
which  is  3,000  arguments  that  support  those  who  say 
that  multilateralism  just  creates  fragmentation  and 
bureaucracy. The critics are not entirely wrong: United 
Nations  reform  should  bring  down  this  number  by  at 
least  a  thousand,  through  co-location,  use  of  shared 
premises and services, and stronger collaboration. That 
is a thousand arguments for improving multilateralism, 
and that is just one example of the broader effort that 
is  required  to  help  the  Secretary-General’s  reform 
drive succeed.
Another  important  initiative  is  the  Secretary-
agenda. 
General’s  Action 
Peacekeeping is at the heart of the United Nations, and 
Peacekeeping 
for 
we  need  to  keep  that  instrument  up  to  date.  Reforms 
within the Secretariat and in missions in the field, like 
the  introduction  of  rotation  schemes,  will  help  make 
peacekeeping  missions  more  effective.  For  their  part, 
Member  States  will  have  to  match  their  words  with 
deeds and money. Supporting change is not a free lunch.
That  is  why,  for  example,  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands  was  the  first  Member  State  to  announce 
funding  for  a  reformed  resident  coordinator  system 
that  will  raise  the  efficiency  of  the  United  Nations 
development  system.  It  is  why  today  I  transferred 
the  intellectual  property  rights  of  the  Dutch  Travel 
Information Portal to the United Nations. That system, 
which  maps  the  travel  movements  of  terrorists  and 
organized crime syndicates, will now be accessible to 
all Member States. It is practical steps like those that 
improve the United Nations, our United Nations.
When  we  look  at  the  United  Nations  institutions, 
we must not mince our words. We must tell it like it is. 
Sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  and  sexual  harassment 
committed  by  people  working  for  United  Nations 
missions  and  organizations  is  unacceptable  in  every 
case and in every place. There are no exceptions. That 
kind of misconduct undermines the core principles of 
the  United  Nations  and  —  as  the  Secretary-General 
has  rightly  pointed  out  —  zero  tolerance  is  the  only 
possible  response.  We  must  put  the  new  policies  in 
place  without  hesitation  and  act  on  them.  We  must 
make  sure  that  victims  feel  heard  and  supported  and 
that whistle-blowers are protected. The United Nations 
is meant to save and improve lives, not destroy them. 
Here we must draw a clear line.
Of course, improving the multilateral system is not 
only about institutions and organizing principles. They 
are only a means to an end. Above all, it is about what we 
do and why we do it. Over the years, we have gradually 
learned that the only way to solve problems is to tackle 
their root causes. We have learned that systematically 
reducing poverty demands more than money alone, that 
ending an armed conflict takes more than Blue Helmets 
alone, that gender equality and education are essential 
for  peace  and  development,  and  that  sustainability, 
climate resilience and international stability go hand in 
hand. The Sustainable Development Goals are built on 
that concept of integrated thinking and action.
That brings me to a topic that is very important to 
me personally and to the Kingdom of the Netherlands: 
water  management  and  adaptation  to  climate  change. 
18-29877
55/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
The  global  water  crisis  affects  us  all,  in  the  form  of 
increasing droughts, floods or pollution. As a member 
of the former High-level Panel on Water, I hope that the 
agenda for water action we presented earlier this year 
will  inspire  others  to  scale  up  their  action  on  water. 
We  need  to  give  the  value  of  water  greater  weight  in 
the economic, social, environmental and other choices 
we make.
For  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands,  that  is  self-
evident.  Amsterdam  airport  is  the  only  airport  in  the 
world  that  lies  below  sea  level  —  over  four  metres 
below sea level, in fact. So those present can imagine 
that  rising  sea  levels  and  the  increase  in  extreme 
weather are of serious concern to us, as they are for the 
Caribbean parts of our Kingdom, which are especially 
vulnerable during the hurricane season.
It goes without saying that we welcome the recent 
announcement  of  the  new  Global  Commission  on 
Adaptation.  We  are  proud  to  be  hosting  the  launch 
event in my home town of The Hague on 16 October. Of 
course, we look forward to next year’s climate summit 
in  New  York  because  it  should  provide  a  platform  to 
delve  deeper  into  the  links  among  climate  resilience, 
financing and security. Climate and water are, by their 
nature, issues that can be dealt with only multilaterally, 
using  an  integrated  approach.  The  Paris  Agreement 
and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 set clear 
objectives.  However,  water  cuts  across  all  the  SDGs. 
What  we  need  now  is  international  transparency,  fair 
market mechanisms and a level playing field so that all 
countries can do their part in adapting to climate change.
During  last  year’s  election  of  Netherlands  United 
Nations  youth  representatives,  the  young  candidates 
were asked what global issue they would address first 
if elected. Members of the Assembly might expect an 
answer like world peace, eradicating poverty or ending 
war. But one of them said:
“I would tackle cynicism first. We can change 
things,  but  we  have  to  believe  we  can,  roll  up 
our  sleeves  and  get  started.  Cynicism  will  get 
us nowhere.”
We  all  should  take  inspiration  from  those  words. 
It  is  easy  to  be  cynical  and  criticize  the  multilateral 
system. It is harder to make improvements and reforms 
that will take us forward, step by step. But constructive 
multilateralism is the only way to make progress. That 
is what we are working for, and not only as a member 
of  the  Security  Council  until  31  December,  but  also 
afterwards  and  in  other  international  forums.  To  that 
end,  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  will  stand  as  a 
candidate for the Human Rights Council for the 2020-
2022 term. We will proceed in the spirit of Kofi Annan, 
who  once  said  that  we  need  to  keep  hope  alive  and 
strive to do better.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister 
of Norway
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Norway.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Erna  Solberg,  Prime 
Minister  of  Norway,  and  inviting  her  to  address 
the Assembly.
Ms. Solberg (Norway): In 1945, we established the 
United Nations. We pledged to save future generations 
from the scourge of war, to work together to promote 
economic  and  social  advancement,  and  to  uphold  and 
respect human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. 
Our  job  is  not  done.  Challenges  remain,  but  progress 
can and must be made.
Our  common  global  interests  are  also  national 
interests. We can achieve more when we act together. 
Both  our  prosperity  and  many  of  our  challenges  are 
the  result  of  global  trends.  Trade  conflicts,  violent 
extremism,  climate  change  and  instability  at  the 
global level directly affect us at home, but so do also 
the  benefits  of  world  trade,  the  global  fight  against 
infectious diseases and the rule of law.
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals recognize 
that global challenges are national challenges and that 
they  are  closely  interlinked.  The  Goals  require  us  to 
take  both  national  and  international  action.  We  must 
deal with the challenges of globalization, while at the 
same time maximizing the benefits to our citizens. Our 
job as leaders is to deliver security, jobs, education and 
56/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
health care. Working together has enabled us all to do 
far more than we could have done alone.
Norway has taken national and international action 
through  our  national  policy  to  promote  sustainable 
livelihoods, 
through  our  Nordic  and  European 
partnerships  on  economic  and  civic  integration,  and 
through  global  action  to  promote  peace  and  security, 
the sound management of the oceans, fair and regulated 
trade,  education  for  all  and  global  health  measures. 
Together, we have achieved impressive results, because 
international cooperation works. Extreme poverty has 
been  halved,  people  live  longer,  child  mortality  rates 
are  falling  and  more  girls  attend  school  than  ever 
before.  Global  political  cooperation,  global  trade  and 
international law have been crucial to that progress.
We  have  to  recognize  that  globalization  has  not 
been  equally  beneficial  to  all.  That  is  a  very  real 
challenge.  Exclusion  can  spur  radicalization.  It  can 
undermine confidence in international institutions and 
cooperation.  Eventually,  it  could  weaken  respect  for 
international law, human rights and even our security 
architecture.  To  counter  that,  we  must  secure  the 
future  welfare  of  a  rapidly  growing  population.  That 
requires both the protection and reform of fundamental 
trade  norms.  We  cannot  afford  to  let  protectionism, 
discrimination and economic rivalry define our future. 
The World Trade Organization is essential for Norway 
and our interaction with the world. I believe that rules-
based trade is just as important for our partners. Free 
trade creates winners. Protectionism does not.
In  order 
rights, 
to  benefit  all, 
rules  and 
responsibilities must be modernized to fit our current 
global economy. That is vital if we are to build a world 
where  people’s  potential,  creativity  and  hopes  for  the 
future can be realized through cooperation, the exchange 
of knowledge and trade. Increased protectionism forces 
us  to  reflect  on  what  less  international  cooperation 
would entail.
As we agreed in 1945, all nations must unite in a 
commitment  to  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.  The  consequences  of  instability  affect  us 
all.  Global  security  threats  require  global  responses. 
The Security Council must be able to act, and so must 
we, as nations and as regional organizations. Areas of 
conflict and instability are breeding grounds for violent 
extremism and international terrorism.
The  conflict  in  Syria  is  but  one  example.  Many 
different actors, State and non-State alike, are involved. 
is  obstructed.  Respect 
Banned weapons of mass destruction have reappeared. 
Humanitarian  access 
for 
human  rights  and  international  law  is  undermined. 
On my own continent, Europe, fundamental rules and 
principles  of  international  law  are  now  in  jeopardy. 
Ukraine’s  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  within 
internationally  recognized  borders  must  be  restored. 
Violent  extremism,  conflict  and  instability  lead  to 
humanitarian  crises  and  violations  of  human  rights. 
Those  in  turn  are  some  of  the  main  drivers  of  both 
regular and irregular migration. Terrorism and violent 
extremism affect us all and are not limited to any single 
ideology, religion or belief.
Norway  is  standing  up  against  violent  extremism 
and  terrorism,  not  in  response  to  individual  incidents 
but  as  a  long-term  foreign  policy  commitment.  We 
are one of 79 members of the Global Coalition against 
the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant.  By  working 
together,  we  have  achieved  significant  results  on  the 
ground.  Still,  in  the  continued  fight  against  violent 
extremism, we must apply a whole-of-society approach. 
We must address the root causes, in the Middle East and 
elsewhere, including in our own countries and on our 
own continents. We must bring individual perpetrators 
to justice and prevent impunity.
Norway  believes  that  those  responsible  for  grave 
violations  of  international  humanitarian  law  must  be 
held  accountable.  We  remain  a  staunch  supporter  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  as  an  independent 
institution. At the same time, security is closely linked 
to  sustainable  development.  We  must  boost  trade  and 
job  creation,  build  capacity  for  generating  domestic 
revenue,  strengthen  public  service  delivery  and 
combat corruption. Corruption fuels inequality, crime, 
instability and violence.
Conflict can reverse years of social and economic 
progress.  Conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and 
disarmament  are  all  vital  if  we  are  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  should  heed 
the  Secretary-General’s  call  for  a  surge  in  peace 
diplomacy. Norway is doing its part. Since the end of 
the  Cold  War,  conflict  mediation  and  resolution  have 
been a cornerstone of our foreign policy. For more than 
25  years,  we  have  been  engaged  in  efforts  to  resolve 
conflicts  around  the  world  —  from  the  first  Oslo 
Accord in 1993, to the ongoing work in Colombia and 
the Philippines, and back to the Middle East.
18-29877
57/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
We  have  learned  an  important  lesson  from  our 
efforts.  Negotiating  a  peace  agreement  is  always 
difficult,  but  implementing  the  agreement  is  even 
harder.  In  fact,  conflict  recurrence  is  more  common 
than  the  onset  of  new  conflicts.  That  means  that  the 
best way to prevent conflict is to ensure that peace is 
sustainable. Norway remains committed in Colombia, 
the  Philippines  and  elsewhere,  just  as  we  remain 
committed to helping to achieve a negotiated two-State 
solution between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  with  the  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs),  demonstrated  the  unique  value  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  have  agreed  on  a  universal 
development  agenda  —  a  road  map  to  the  world  we 
want. The SDGs are closely interlinked. Achieving Goal 
16 on peace, the rule of law and strong institutions is 
crucial to ensuring that funds are not lost to corruption, 
and achieving the SDGs related to economic conditions 
will make funding available that can be used to make 
progress on other Goals. But we have no time to lose. 
Sustainable change cannot be brought about overnight. 
National  ownership 
is  critical,  but  civil  society, 
the  private  sector,  trade  unions  and  the  scientific 
community all have a catalytic role to play.
Health  is  an  area  where  it  is  easy  to  see  that  the 
SDGs apply to us all. Health is both a human right in 
itself  and  a  prerequisite  for  development.  Investing 
in national health systems is expensive, but failing to 
do  so  can  prove  even  more  costly.  The  World  Health 
Organization is working to create a global action plan 
for a simpler health architecture. That is a response to 
an initiative launched by Ghana, Germany and Norway. 
The action plan will be presented in Berlin in October.
Prevention  saves  lives,  reduces  human  suffering 
and  enhances  economic  and  social  development. 
Norway is proud to be hosting the first replenishment 
conference of the Global Financing Facility in Oslo on 
6 November, and will contribute substantially. Progress 
on  one  SDG  will  stimulate  progress  on  others.  For 
example, child mortality rates fall when mothers have 
an education.
However, there are still more boys than girls who 
get  an  education.  We  have  to  put  girls  at  the  centre 
of  our  education  efforts.  But  just  going  to  school 
is  not  enough.  That  is  why  Norway  has  focused  on 
teaching  quality  and  learning  outcomes.  Ensuring 
quality  education  requires  continued  international 
financing, and the financing gap is considerable. It is 
therefore  important  to  mobilize  domestic  resources 
and  private  funding,  alongside  official  development 
assistance.  Norway  is  doing  its  part.  So  far  this  year, 
we have allocated approximately $440 million to global 
education,  and  we  will  now  increase  our  support  to 
education efforts targeting girls, to nearly $40 million 
for the period 2018-2019.
Clean  and  healthy  oceans  that  are  sustainably 
harvested  are  a  prerequisite  for  reaching  the  SDGs. 
Fifty  per  cent  of  the  world’s  oxygen  comes  from  the 
oceans.  Thirty  per  cent  of  the  world’s  carbon  dioxide 
emissions  are  absorbed  by  the  oceans.  Our  oceans 
offer us enormous renewable resources and represent a 
source of great promise and economic potential. Almost 
half of the world’s population already depends on the 
oceans  for  nutrition  and  employment,  but  in  order  to 
ensure a sustainable ocean economy, we must produce 
more from the oceans.
However,  the  sustainability  of  our  oceans  is 
threatened.  By  2050,  they  could  contain  more  plastic 
than  fish.  Marine  litter  is  one  of  the  fastest  growing 
environmental  concerns.  Since  I  started  speaking,  a 
further  200  tons  of  plastic  have  ended  up  in  the  sea. 
The United Nations Environment Assembly has taken 
a  bold  step  and  adopted  a  vision  of  zero  discharge  of 
plastic litter into the ocean. Now we must translate that 
into action. Managing our oceans sustainably is crucial. 
Increased  global  funding  is  imperative  and  Norway 
will dig deep to contribute. We have no time to lose.
That  is  why,  earlier  this  week,  I  established  the 
High-level  Panel  for  a  Sustainable  Ocean  Economy, 
made  up  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  from 
all  continents.  We  aim  to  promote  science-based 
decision-making  in  the  fields  of  ocean  economy  and 
ocean management. We will cooperate closely with the 
United Nations Special Envoy for the Ocean and other 
ocean initiatives. We aim to present our report in 2020.
For  seven  decades,  Norway  has  been  a  consistent 
supporter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  rules-based 
multilateral order. We are one of the largest financial 
contributors  to  the  United  Nations.  We  consistently 
allocate  1  per  cent  of  our  gross  national  income 
to  development  aid.  There  is  broad  support  for  the 
United Nations and for our engagement in sustainable 
development and peace across the political spectrum.
In  2021  it  will  have  been  20  years  since  Norway 
previously  held  a  seat  on  the  Security  Council.  We 
58/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
are  ready  to  serve  again.  If  we  are  elected,  we  will 
work  to  make  the  Security  Council  more  transparent, 
efficient  and  representative.  We  will  work  with  other 
Member  States,  regardless  of  their  size,  wealth  or 
geographical  location,  to  find  common  solutions.  We 
will draw on our experience in peace and reconciliation 
processes.  As  women’s  rights  and  participation  are 
crucial  to  lasting  peace  and  stability,  we  will  keep 
that issue high on our agenda. Together with partners 
from many regions, Norway will support initiatives for 
sustainable  oceans  and  forests.  We  will  highlight  the 
consequences of climate change and the links between 
security and sustainable development. We will promote 
reform  of  the  Council  to  make  it  more  transparent, 
representative and better equipped to deal with current 
global realities. Norway will continue to be a consistent 
partner of the United Nations. We will continue to seek 
common solutions to the challenges that we face in our 
shared future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Norway for the statement she has just made.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind them that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan):  We  have  asked  for  the 
floor  to  respond  to  the  statement  made  yesterday  in 
the  general  debate  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Armenia 
(see  A/73/PV.7).  The  initial  impression  was  that  the 
speaker —  while  still  under  the  influence  of  what  he 
called the Velvet Revolution and driven by populist and 
highly contradictory rhetoric — confused the General 
Assembly with the streets of Gyumri and Yerevan. While 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Armenia  was  not  fastidious  in 
his choice of words in blaming the ousted Government 
of  his  country  for  authoritarian  rule,  corruption  and 
the  suppression  of  democracy  and  human  rights,  his 
comments about the ongoing conflict between Armenia 
and Azerbaijan differed little from the phraseology that 
has  been  stubbornly  used  by  his  predecessors  in  the 
past. As a consequence, the statement of the Armenian 
Prime Minister was yet another useless attempt to deny 
the  facts  and  responsibility  for  unleashing  the  war 
against Azerbaijan and its devastating consequences.
It is well known that Armenia used military force to 
seize part of the territory of Azerbaijan, including the 
Nagorno Karabakh region, the seven adjacent districts 
and some exclaves, and to set up the subordinate racist 
minority  regime  there.  The  war  waged  by  Armenia 
claimed the lives of tens of thousands of people, ruined 
cities, towns and villages, and resulted in the forcible 
expulsion of more than 1 million Azerbaijanis from their 
homes  and  property,  while  thousands  of  people  went 
missing  in  connection  with  the  conflict.  The  claims 
and  misinterpretations  that  we  heard  in  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  Armenian  Prime  Minister  were 
particularly astonishing given that they were expressed 
in the United Nations, whose Security Council adopted 
four  resolutions  condemning  the  use  of  force  against 
Azerbaijan and the bombardment and occupation of its 
territories, while reaffirming respect for the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of my country, the inviolability 
of international borders and the inadmissibility of the 
use of force for the acquisition of territory.
Furthermore,  in  response  to  Armenia’s  territorial 
claims and forcible actions, the Council has reconfirmed 
that  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  is  an  integral  part 
of Azerbaijan and demanded the immediate, complete 
and unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces 
from all the occupied territories. In other words, in its 
resolutions the Security Council has acknowledged the 
fact  that  acts  of  military  force  have  been  committed 
against Azerbaijan and that such acts are unlawful and 
incompatible with the prohibition of the use of armed 
force  in  international  relations,  and  in  contradiction 
to the Charter of the United Nations and its purposes, 
and  that  they  constitute  an  obvious  violation  of  the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan.
It  was  no  surprise  that,  in  his  speech,  the  Prime 
Minister of Armenia deliberately passed over the relevant 
Security Council resolution in silence. Likewise, he also 
omitted  any  mention  of  other  important  international 
documents  adopted  in  connection  with  the  conflict. 
The declared commitments and deeds of Armenia have 
always been at odds with the objective of the peaceful 
settlement of the conflict. The statement of the Prime 
Minister  of  Armenia  was  no  exception.  In  reality,  in 
having  used  military  force  to  occupy  the  territory 
of  a  sovereign  State,  Armenia  has  demonstrated  its 
18-29877
59/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
firm conviction in the existence of an alternative to a 
political solution.
Allegations  concerning  a  new  mythical  genocidal 
threat  against  the  Armenian  people  represent  another 
falsehood. Suffice it to say that, unlike Armenia, which 
has  implemented  a  policy  of  total  ethnic  cleansing  of 
all non-Armenians from both its own territory and the 
occupied areas of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan has preserved 
its ethnic and cultural diversity to the present day and 
is  home  to  tens  of  thousands  of  Armenians  living  in 
peace,  harmony  and  dignity  in  the  capital  city  of 
Baku  and  other  parts  of  the  country.  All  statements 
by  the  Armenian  leadership  about  democracy,  human 
rights  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  conflict  are 
preposterous and will remain mere words unless they 
are  translated  into  real  action  that  would  end  the 
occupation of the territories of Azerbaijan and ensure 
the  return  of  forcibly  displaced  Azerbaijanis  to  their 
homes  and  property  in  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region 
and  other  occupied  districts  of  Azerbaijan  in  safety 
and dignity. The achievement of that objective, which 
is  imperative  and  not  subject  to  compromise,  will 
create  the  necessary  conditions  for  addressing  other 
issues  with  the  direct,  equal  and  full  participation  of 
both  communities  concerning  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
region  within  the  Constitutional  and  legal  framework 
of Azerbaijan.
Armenia’s  policy  of  annexation  and  colonization 
has no chance of succeeding. The Nagorno Karabakh 
region has always been and will remain and inseparable 
part  of  Azerbaijan.  The  military  occupation  of  the 
territories  of  Azerbaijan  is  temporary  and  will  never 
produce  the  political  outcome  desired  by  Armenia. 
Yerevan  must  cease  its  futile  attempts  to  mislead  its 
own  people  and  the  international  community,  engage 
constructively  in  the  conflict-settlement  process  and 
comply with its international obligations.
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): It was not my intention 
to take the floor. However, I am forced to use my right 
of reply to respond to the accusations that were aired 
just now in the General Assembly.
First and foremost, I would like to put everything 
frankly  and  note  that  there  is  no  conflict  between 
Armenia  and  Azerbaijan. The  conflict is  between  the 
Nagorno  Karabakh  Republic,  also  known  by  its  new 
name — the Republic of Artsakh — and the Republic 
of Azerbaijan. I would like to remind the Assembly, but 
especially  our  Azerbaijani  colleagues,  as  I  am  really 
surprised  by  their  logic  in  turning  the  truth  upside 
down. Let me remind them of a few important phases 
of history.
The  first  attacks  on  the  peaceful  population  of 
Nagorno Karabakh were carried out by the authorities 
of Azerbaijan. The attacks were afterwards turned into 
a  full-scale  war  against  the  population  of  Artsakh. 
Azerbaijan  used  heavy  artillery,  tanks  and  every 
possible  weapon  they  could  to  destroy  and  annihilate 
the population of Nagorno Karabakh. Luckily, and not 
surprisingly, they lost. Nagorno Karabakh won that war 
and, in order to secure its right to life, it had to fight. 
It  fought  and  won.  Moreover,  on  10  December  1991, 
Nagorno  Karabakh  declared,  through  a  referendum, 
its independence from Azerbaijan in the same way in 
which  Azerbaijan  declared  its  independence  from  the 
former Soviet Union.
The Azerbaijan representative mentioned the racist 
accusations levelled at the Armenian authorities, but let 
me recall the racist accusations made by the Azerbaijani 
leadership,  including  the  President,  who  has  always 
said that every Armenian in the world is an enemy of 
Azerbaijan. They are changing the situation by turning 
themselves  into  victims  and  putting  the  entire  blame 
on  Armenia,  Armenians  or  anything  Armenian  in 
the world.
Let us look at the current military preparations of 
Azerbaijan.  The  constant  shelling  on  the  border  with 
Armenia and the ceaseless shelling and sniper fire on 
the  Nagorno  Karabakh  contact  line  are  showing  the 
true face of Azerbaijan. Nagorno Karabakh has never 
been  and  will  never  be  part  of  Azerbaijan.  It  is  an 
independent  republic  with  a  full-fledged  Government 
and many more democratic institutions than Azerbaijan. 
Azerbaijan should reacquaint itself with the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  remember  that  the  aggressor, 
first  and  foremost,  is  Azerbaijan.  The  whole  thing 
began as a result of Azerbaijan’s aggression against the 
people of Nagorno Karabakh.
Concerning the myth of genocide, it began not only 
with  the  massacres  of  every  Armenian  person  living 
in  Sumgait,  Baku  and  Kirovabad  20  to  30  years  ago, 
but  were  also  carried  out  in  the  early  years  of  Soviet 
power  in  Azerbaijan,  when  Armenians  were  killed  in 
Baku and attacked in Shushi. There is a real threat to 
the  people  living  in  Nagorno  Karabakh.  That  is  why 
no  Armenian  or  any  other  ethnic  minority,  for  that 
60/62 
18-29877
26/09/2018 
A/73/PV.9
matter, would be willing to live under the occupation 
of Azerbaijan.
Everything  said  by  the  Azerbaijan  representative 
is false. Let me address, at least, one particular issue. 
The assertion that tens of thousands of Armenians are 
living in Azerbaijan is false. The European Commission 
against  Racism  and  Intolerance,  established  by  the 
Council of Europe, has reported on numerous occasions, 
based on its visits with and studies of the Azerbaijani 
population,  that,  at  most,  20  to  30  Armenian  people 
currently  live  in  Azerbaijan  in  mixed  marriages.  The 
words of the representatives of Azerbaijan — whether 
in  this  Hall  or  in  Baku  —  never  correspond  to  the 
realities  on  the  ground.  Whatever  is  said  is  based  on 
lies and wishful thinking.
It is most important not to deliberate those issues 
here  and  invoke  various  stories  that,  as  I  mentioned, 
have been fabricated, but to stick to the peace process. 
It  will  be  very  important  for  the  Azerbaijani  side  to 
be  sincerely  engaged  in  the  peace  process.  The  only 
mandated  peace  process,  which  is  also  mandated 
by  the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-General, 
is 
the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  and  the  Minsk 
Group.  Negotiations  have  been  conducted  within  that 
framework for many years, and they have yielded many 
results, but in order to achieve final results, we need the 
sincere  participation  of  Azerbaijan,  while  forgetting 
any  possible  military  solution  and  being  sincerely 
active in peaceful negotiations.
the  co-chairmanship  of 
Mr.  Aliyev 
the 
just  made  by 
(Azerbaijan):  The  unfortunate 
comments 
representative  of 
Armenia, which were full of the usual distortions and 
falsifications, are illustrative of the consistent attempts 
of that Member State to deny the facts that point to its 
policy of aggression, hostility, hatred and falsifications. 
It was precisely the Armenian armed attacks on areas 
within Azerbaijan that led to the series of four Security 
Council resolutions and relevant presidential statements. 
The  demand  for  the  cessation  of  hostilities  was  first 
and foremost directed at the invading Armenian forces. 
It  was  Armenia  that  intentionally  disregarded  the 
demands  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  immediate 
cessation of all military activities and hostile acts for 
the purpose of establishing a stable ceasefire.
The  events  that  unfolded  prior  to  and  in  the 
aftermath  of  the  adoption  of  each  resolution  make  it 
clear that Armenia’s allegations are baseless and leave 
no doubt as to who was responsible for the continued 
armed  hostilities  and  to  whom  the  demands  of  the 
Security Council were exclusively addressed. Clearly, 
the  claims  of  Armenia  run  counter  to  the  norms  of 
international  law  and  are  without  foundation.  It  is 
well known that the Nagorno Karabakh region and the 
seven  surrounding  districts  of  Azerbaijan  are  under 
Armenian military occupation. Indeed, Armenia used 
military force to occupy the territory of Azerbaijan and 
establish  a  subordinate  regime  on  it.  That  regime  is 
entirely unrecognized as such. It is under the direction 
and control of Armenia and is ultimately nothing other 
than  the  product  of  aggression,  racial  discrimination 
and  ethnic  cleansing.  Consequently,  the  illegality 
of  that  regime  and  its  structures  has  been  repeatedly 
confirmed at the international level.
Armenia’s  policy  of  aggression  and  territorial 
claims are not only a threat to peace and security, but 
also  are  one  of  the  main  causes  of  the  deep  political 
crisis and the dire economic situation in that country. 
The  international  community  would  undoubtedly  be 
interested  in  hearing  from  the  delegation  of  Armenia 
about  the  real  problems  that  the  country  is  facing  in 
the  socioeconomic  sphere,  including  a  significant  dip 
in major sectors of the economy in recent years and a 
high rate of migration of its citizens from the country.
However,  neither 
the  Prime  Minister  or 
the 
representative of Armenia mentioned in their statements 
any efforts the Government is taking to address those 
challenges and implement the Sustainable Development 
Goals. They prefer to keep silent on that simply because 
they  have  nothing  to  say.  We  have  repeatedly  stated 
this before, and I would like to stress once again, the 
sooner  the  Government  of  Armenia  realizes  the  lack 
of  any  prospect  of  success  for  its  dangerous  political 
agenda,  the  sooner  the  conflict  will  be  resolved  and 
all countries and peoples will be able to benefit from 
peace, stability and cooperation.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  Basically,  I  need  only 
recall  any  newspaper  or  any  media  outlet  of  30  years 
ago,  when  every  detailed  description  was  presented 
concerning  developments  in  the  massacre  of  the 
Armenian population in Azerbaijan, including the detail 
of who attacked whom first, how things started and the 
source of the conflict. As I said, it is most important that 
people read the newspapers of 30 years ago, not today’s 
newspapers because today’s Azerbaijani newspapers are 
merely lying about everything that happened 30 years 
ago. Unfortunately, there is not a single person, human 
18-29877
61/62
A/73/PV.9 
26/09/2018
rights  activist,  human  rights  defender  or  independent 
journalist who will be able to speak freely or accurately 
in Azerbaijan because everyone who speaks accurately 
is behind bars these days.
The Security Council requested that Armenia use 
its  influence  to  stop  the  hostilities,  which  it  did,  and 
the hostilities were stopped on 4 May 1994, when the 
Azerbaijani  Government  itself  was  willing  to  sign 
a  ceasefire  agreement  with  the  de  facto  authorities 
of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  Republic.  Armenia  was  a 
co-signer of that document, and the other main parties 
were, as I said, Azerbaijan and the Nagorno Karabakh 
Republic authorities.
It  is  awful  to  see  what  is  currently  happening 
in  Azerbaijan.  Because  the  authorities  of  Nagorno 
Karabakh are very open and sincere in their democratic 
values, anyone from any country of the world visiting 
the Nagorno Karabakh Republic — whether for tourism 
or official business — is blacklisted by the Azerbaijani 
authorities,  who  limit  their  freedom  to  travel  and 
freedom  of  movement.  I  should  also  add  that  the 
Nagorno Karabakh authorities are fully and unilaterally 
abiding  by  the  United  Nations  rules.  The  Nagorno 
Karabakh authorities have unilaterally ratified all of the 
important  United  Nations  conventions,  including  the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and many other 
important documents. In addition, Nagorno Karabakh 
will soon present its voluntary national review for the 
high-level political forum of the Economic and Social 
Council on its progress with regard to the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
The threat to security in the region is coming from 
a  single  source  —  Azerbaijan.  That  threat  is  further 
exacerbated by the fact that at least 1,000 Azerbaijani 
citizens have been fighting in the so-called Azerbaijani 
Brigade  of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham, 
who  occasionally  have  appeared  on  the  border  with 
Armenia;  who  declared  that  they  would  leave  Raqqa 
to  fight  against  Nagorno  Karabakh  during  the  April 
2016 war, which was unleashed by Azerbaijan against 
the  peaceful  population  of  Nagorno  Karabakh;  and 
who  luckily,  not  surprisingly  and  very  logically  lost 
once again.
In conclusion, and most important, as I said, peace 
negotiations  are  carried  out  within  the  framework  of 
the  co-chairmanship  of  the  Organization  for  Security 
and Cooperation in Europe and the Minsk Group. The 
main  principles  that  have  been  put  forward  are  the 
following: the non-use of force or threat of the use of 
force, territorial integrity and the equal rights and self-
determination  of  people.  Unfortunately,  Azerbaijan 
always  forgets  about  self-determination  and  puts 
its  territorial  integrity  first.  I  recall  that  any  future 
solution  to  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict  has  to  be 
found within the framework of negotiations, based on 
those three most important principles.
The meeting rose at 10.35 p.m.
62/62 
18-29877
