United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
10th plenary meeting
Thursday, 27 September 2018, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
failed  to  act  and  remained  powerless  bystanders  as 
humankind plunged into another world war.
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Lithuania.
Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė, 
President of the Republic of Lithuania, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly.
President  Grybauskaitė:  This  November 
the 
world  will  commemorate  the  centenary  of  the  end 
of  the  First  World  War.  The  war  caused  the  fall  of 
empires  and  opened  a  window  for  small  nations  in 
Europe, including Lithuania, to achieve their dreams of 
living independently and freely, enjoying their culture 
and traditions.
To prevent such a war from ever happening again, 
multilateral  institutions  were  created  to  safeguard 
political  independence  and  territorial  integrity.  Yet 
when the world faced its next big crisis, those institutions 
Today we would like to think that our multilateral 
institutions,  including  the  United  Nations,  are  strong 
enough  to  take  a  stand  against  aggression  and  a 
disregard of international rules. But sometimes reality 
tells  a  different  story.  We  see  a  world  that  is  more 
fractured, with institutions that are crumbling, instead 
of one that is sheltering us from the use of force and from 
economic  storms.  In  almost  every  major  crisis  of  the 
past decade, from Syria to Ukraine and from Myanmar 
to Yemen, the Security Council has been unable to play 
a meaningful role because of the inability of States to 
rise  above  their  national  interests  and  because  of  the 
obstructive use of the veto power.
Organizations created to abolish weapons of mass 
destruction are toothless against dictators who develop 
nuclear  arms  and  use  chemical  weapons  on  civilians. 
As the tide begins to turn for the global economy, the 
World Trade Organization is starting to face paralysis. 
Rising  global  tensions  in  trade  could  wipe  away 
our  achievements  in  sustainable  development  and 
poverty reduction.
We  must  therefore  recognize  that  our  institutions 
are not perfect. They can be bureaucratic, wasteful and 
unaccountable. But it was us, the Member States, that 
created them, and so it is up to us alone to improve and 
adapt them to new realities. Before we seek to destroy 
multilateral  institutions,  commitments  or  agreements, 
we must have a clear vision of what we want to build 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30067 (E)
*1830067*

A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
instead.  Otherwise  we  will  end  up  living  on  a  pile 
of ruins.
We cannot reject globalization, because fighting it 
will only make us poorer. Over the past 25 years, free 
trade has given more than 1 billion people an opportunity 
to  escape  extreme  poverty.  However,  globalization 
also  has  a  dark  side,  which  must  be  confronted  by 
acting against exclusion, inequality and falling labour 
standards.  We  cannot  let  the  voices  of  nationalism 
and  division  win  over  dialogue  and  cooperation.  On 
all major challenges — terrorism, climate change and 
female empowerment — there is simply no alternative 
to working together.
So far we have been too quiet, too passive and too 
ignorant. We must stop taking the easy way out, blaming 
institutions for our own political or domestic failures. 
We  must  recognize  that  we,  the  Member  States,  have 
the power and resources to enable the United Nations to 
stand up for peace, freedom, equality and humankind, 
because  we  are  the  United  Nations.  Let  us  take  this 
opportunity  and  assume  responsibility  for  our  future, 
empowering the United Nations to act.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Lithuania for the statement she has just made.
Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi, 
President of the Republic of Botswana
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Botswana.
Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi, President 
of the Republic of Botswana, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe 
Masisi, President of the Republic of Botswana, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Masisi:  It  is  indeed  an  honour  and 
privilege for me to address the General Assembly for 
the  first  time  in  my  capacity  as  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Botswana, after assuming office on 1 April. 
I  succeeded  our  former  President  Lieutenant  General 
Serêtsê  Khama  Ian  Khama,  who  retired  at  the  end  of 
his term in office. It was the fifth time that Botswana 
has  witnessed  a  smooth  transfer  of  power  since  its 
independence, in 1966.
Allow me to join other delegations in paying tribute 
to the former Secretary-General of the United Nations, 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who  passed  away  on  18  August. 
Mr.  Annan  will  be  remembered  as  an  international 
statesman  and  an  icon  who  devoted  his  entire  life  to 
serving humankind.
Let me also join other delegations in congratulating 
Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on her election as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-third 
session. Her election is particularly noteworthy as this 
is only the fourth time a woman has held the position 
since the founding of our world body, 73 years ago, and 
she is the first woman to do so from the Latin American 
and Caribbean region. I would like to assure her of the 
full  support  and  cooperation  of  my  delegation  as  she 
discharges her mandate, and we wish her every success.
Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  who  competently 
presided over the deliberations of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-second session.
I  also  wish  to  thank  our  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres,  for  his  outstanding 
leadership  and  stewardship  of  the  United  Nations.  I 
want especially to commend him for the reforms that 
he  has  initiated,  which  are  aimed  at  improving  the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Organization.
My delegation welcomes the theme of the general 
debate  of  the  seventy-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, “Making the United Nations relevant to all 
people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for 
peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”.  We  are 
particularly pleased to note that it builds on last year’s 
theme, which also focused on people and emphasized 
the nexus between peace and a decent life for everyone 
on  the  planet.  That  shows  the  steadfast  commitment 
of 
to  ensuring  sustainable 
development  for  all.  Clearly,  the  principle  of  leaving 
no one behind should remain our long-term aspiration. 
It  is  a  clarion  call  for  us  to  end  extreme  poverty  and 
ensure the provision of quality education, health care, 
infrastructure, housing and employment for all.
the  United  Nations 
2/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
I  am  pleased  that  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals Report 2018 indicates that there are more people 
living  healthier  lives  today  than  there  were  a  decade 
ago.  However,  we  should  be  reminded  that  much 
more  still  needs  to  be  done  to  achieve  prosperity  for 
all,  especially  in  view  of  the  fact  that  an  estimated 
783 million people live in extreme poverty, 2.3 billion 
still  lack  access  to  basic  levels  of  sanitation  services 
and 4 billion are without social protection.
It  is  therefore  apparent  that  none  of  us,  whether 
big or small, can overcome those gigantic development 
challenges alone. Consequently, we need to act together 
to strengthen multilateralism and honour and implement 
the commitments made by the General Assembly and 
global partnerships for sustainable development.
It  is  also  imperative  that  the  global  community 
continue  to  support  individual  countries,  taking  into 
account  their  unique  development  challenges.  For 
instance,  while  Botswana  is  classified  as  an  upper-
middle-income  country,  it  is  still  dealing  with  many 
development  challenges  comparable  to  those  of  less-
developed countries. However, we are reassured by the 
words the Secretary-General used when he said that the 
United Nations
“stands  ready  to  work  with  all  Member  States  to 
make the Sustainable Development Goals a reality 
for everyone, everywhere”.
In  view  of  the  development  challenges  facing 
my  country,  I  want  to  reiterate  our  appeal  for 
continued  support  in  human  capital,  infrastructure 
and  capacity  development  for  the  private  sector  and 
technology transfer.
On  sustainable  development,  Botswana  reaffirms 
its  commitment  to  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. Accordingly, we 
have aligned our national Vision 2036 with that global 
Agenda. At the regional level, we are also pleased that 
the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  and  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community’s 
integration 
agenda  are  also  aligned  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
What those development agendas have in common 
is that they are aimed at eradicating poverty and creating 
inclusive,  prosperous  and  peaceful  societies.  In  that 
respect,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  extreme  poverty 
continues to decline across the globe, even though we 
still  have  a  long  way  to  go,  given  that  35  per  cent  of 
Africa’s population — 395 million people — still live 
in abject poverty.
As we begin the third year of the implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, my 
Government remains steadfast in its resolve to improve 
the  material  and  social  well-being  of  Botswana’s 
population.  Our  national  development  agenda  places 
“people,  planet,  prosperity,  peace  and  partnership”  at 
the  heart  of  sustainable  development.  In  that  regard, 
our  national  Vision  2036  is  anchored  to  four  pillars: 
sustainable  economic  development;  human  and  social 
development; sustainable environment; and governance, 
peace and security.
In addition, we have six national priorities that are 
aligned with our national Vision pillars — developing 
diversified sources of economic growth, human capital 
development  and  social  development,  the  sustainable 
use  of  national  resources,  the  consolidation  of  good 
governance,  strengthening  national  security  and 
the  implementation  of  an  effective  monitoring  and 
evaluation system. With those in mind, our sustainable 
development  pathway  strikes  a  balance  among 
the  social,  human,  economic,  environmental  and 
governance dimensions.
The implementation of our national Vision 2036 and 
the eleventh national development plan is underpinned 
by a robust monitoring and evaluation system to ensure 
the  effective  delivery  of  these  programmes’  goals 
and  aspirations.  Additionally,  we  have  established  a 
national  steering  committee  to  effectively  coordinate 
and  monitor  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  We  have  also  developed 
Botswana’s  SDGs  road  map,  which  is  a  guide  for  the 
achievement  of  the  goals  contained  within  the  SDGs, 
covering the period from 2017 to 2036.
My  Government  has  adopted  a  comprehensive 
and  inclusive  approach  to  the  implementation  and 
monitoring  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
It  aims  to  ensure  broad  ownership  and  leadership 
at  the  local,  community  and  national  levels  and  to 
break down silos across the development spectrum by 
forging strategic partnerships among the Government, 
academia,  civil  society  organizations,  community-
based organizations, development partners, the private 
sector, non-State actors and the United Nations system. 
In  pursuit  of  those  goals  and  aspirations,  we  have 
given priority to economic diversification, sustainable 
economic growth, employment creation and investment 
18-30067
3/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
in human capital with a view to building a prosperous 
and inclusive society.
In particular, the focus is on our young people, who 
constitute  60  per  cent  of  the  population  of  Botswana. 
In that regard, our ultimate goal is to attain universal 
access 
to  pre-primary,  primary  and  secondary 
education.  We  are  also  expanding  access  to  tertiary, 
technical  and  vocational  education  and  training.  In 
addition,  we  are  developing  a  national  employment 
policy, the objective of which is to assist Botswana in 
reaching gainful and productive employment and decent 
work for all. Above all, the Government of Botswana 
has  developed  several  policies,  programmes  and 
strategies,  such  as  our  economic  diversification  drive 
initiative,  our  citizen  economic  empowerment  policy, 
youth  empowerment  scheme  and  youth  development 
fund, to support sustainable economic development and 
employment creation.
To  ensure  that  development  benefits  all,  my 
Government continues to make substantial investments 
in  the  provision  of  health  care,  decent  housing  and 
shelter  through  interventions  such  as  the  Treat  All 
Strategy,  preventing  mother-to-child 
transmission 
of  HIV,  a  self-help  housing  agency  and  a  programme 
to  house  the  destitute.  Additionally,  the  Government 
provides  social  protection  to  such  vulnerable  groups 
as  children,  young  persons,  the  elderly  and  persons 
living  with  disabilities  through  a  policy  addressing 
out-of-school  children,  the  orphan-care  programme 
and  the  old-age  pension  scheme.  Other  development 
interventions  aimed  at  increasing  access  to  economic 
and  social  opportunities  include  poverty  eradication, 
women and youth empowerment, and a national policy 
on gender and development.
Furthermore, we are giving priority to investments 
in research and development, science, technology and 
innovation in order to transform Botswana into a high-
income-status  nation  and  knowledge-based  economy. 
Investment 
information  and  communications 
technology  is  undertaken  to  promote  growth  and 
economic diversification and to support e-Government 
services and innovation in the economy.
in 
We note that the implementation of the ambitious 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  faces 
immense  constraints 
terms  of  resources  and 
capacity. In that respect, we welcome the efforts of the 
United Nations to address those challenges through the 
adoption  of  resolution  72/279,  on  the  repositioning  of 
in 
Botswana  also  welcomes 
the United Nations development system, in May 2018. 
The  resolution  is  vital  in  that  it  aims  at  supporting 
countries in their efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. It is our firm conviction 
that  strengthened  United  Nations  country  teams  and 
reinvigorated  Resident  Coordinator  systems  will 
contribute significantly to the achievement of the SDGs.
the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Framework  for  the 
Implementation of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  to  ensure  the  effective 
coordination,  execution  and  monitoring  of 
those 
two  instruments  as  well  as  reporting  on  them.  That 
coordination  will  hopefully  ensure  that  there  is  no 
duplication of effort, thereby allowing for the effective 
use of our already limited resources.
the  signing  of 
On  human  rights,  Botswana  remains  committed 
to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights, 
democracy, good governance and the rule of law, which 
are critical to sustainable development, prosperity and 
peaceful societies. In that regard, we continue to support 
efforts aimed at fighting impunity and at implementing 
the principle of the responsibility to protect populations 
from  such  atrocities  as  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
cleansing and crimes against humanity. Accordingly, we 
reaffirm our full support for the Human Rights Council 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  The  ICC 
achieved a milestone this year when it commemorated 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the 
Rome  Statute,  which  founded  the  Court.  Since  its 
establishment,  in  2002,  the  International  Criminal 
Court has contributed significantly to the strengthening 
of the international criminal justice system through its 
prosecution of grave international crimes.
On  international  peace  and  security,  Botswana 
remains deeply concerned about the protracted conflicts 
in Afghanistan, Mali, South Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It 
is estimated that over the past decade, violent conflicts 
have led to the forced displacement of over 68.5 million 
people.  Studies  show  that  conflicts  contribute  to 
increases in slums, hunger and food insecurity, thereby 
worsening  humanitarian  crises.  We  therefore  urge  all 
parties  to  those  conflicts  to  uphold  their  obligation 
to  protect  civilians  and  humanitarian  personnel,  in 
accordance  with  international  human  rights  law  and 
international humanitarian law. We also want to stress 
that  dialogue  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts 
are  critical  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security.
4/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
post-conflict 
We  want  to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for 
initiating reforms of the peace and security pillar aimed 
at strengthening United Nations capacities in conflict 
prevention  and  resolution,  mediation,  peacekeeping, 
peacemaking, 
and 
development,  peacebuilding  and  sustaining  peace.  To 
bolster  international  peacemaking  efforts,  African 
leaders have committed themselves to funding 25 per 
cent  of  peace  support  operations  in  Africa  by  2021 
and to silencing the guns by 2020. I therefore want to 
applaud regional organizations for their commitment to 
that noble cause.
reconstruction 
With regard to corruption, as a global community 
we  need  to  address  the  problems  of  illicit  financial 
flows,  money-laundering  and  corruption,  which  are 
haemorrhaging  the  resources  needed  to  implement 
the  SDGs.  Among  other  things,  SDG  16  calls  for  a 
substantial  reduction  of  corruption  and  bribery  in  all 
their  forms,  strengthening  the  recovery  and  return  of 
stolen assets and developing effective, accountable and 
transparent institutions at all levels.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  reaffirm  Botswana’s 
commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations and the full implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our actions 
should be bold and transformative as we build a better 
future for our nations and succeeding generations. We 
should stand firm behind our mantra of leaving no one 
behind. Let us not be hesitant in demonstrating global 
leadership,  collective  responsibility  and  collaborative 
partnerships involving all countries and peoples of the 
world. The future is truly in our hands.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Botswana for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi, President 
of the Republic of Botswana, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
into 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicos  Anastasiades, 
President of the Republic of Cyprus, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Anastasiades: At the outset, allow me to 
congratulate the newly elected President of the General 
Assembly,  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés,  and 
to assure her of my Government’s unwavering support 
in her mission to lead the Assembly at its seventy-third 
session.
I would also like to pay tribute to the memory of the 
late  former  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations, 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who,  with  his  charismatic  and 
measured  approach,  redefined  the  Organization  and 
actively  championed  the  ideals  that  characterized  his 
ethos:  peacemaking  and  peacekeeping,  international 
cooperation and sustainable development.
In  addition,  by  honouring  the  centenary  of  the 
birth  of  the  great  statesman  and  world  leader,  Nelson 
Mandela, we have expressed our great admiration and 
gratitude for his active promotion of the noble values of 
peace, justice and equality.
Cyprus  fully  endorses  the  theme  chosen  for  this 
year’s  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies”. We fully subscribe to the theme, 
in  line,  of  course,  with  the  vast  majority  of  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  since  the  essence  of 
the theme reminds us of the founding principles of the 
Organization,  in  which  millions  of  people  and  many 
countries  have  vested  their  hopes  for  a  better  future. 
The  Organization  emerged  from  the  ashes  of  war  for 
the  purposes  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security  and  respecting  and  promoting  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all,  irrespective  of 
gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief.
The order it proposes is based on multilateralism, 
collective action and international cooperation among 
States  with  sovereign  equality.  However,  one  might 
consider thinking that we have failed to uphold those 
values by asking how it is that we come back again and 
again, year after year, as a kind of ritual, to attest to the 
dismal lack of effectiveness for some and the attempts at 
embellishment of others for what is in fact our inability 
to fulfil the aims of the Charter of the United Nations. 
Why do the decisions of the Security Council in their 
18-30067
5/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
overwhelming  majority  remain  mere  certificates  that 
attest  to  violations?  Why  are  international  law  and 
international  agreements  not  implemented?  Why  do 
strategies  and  programmes  aimed  at  creating  better 
conditions for people who are suffering remain wishful 
thinking? When will we finally really take our destiny 
into our own hands, fully assuming our responsibilities 
towards  our  peoples  and  towards  humankind  as  a 
whole?
As  a  leader  of  a  small  country  that  has  suffered 
for  more  than  44  years  from  blatant  violations  of 
international law, let me repeat the well-known causes 
that  explain  those  unacceptable  and  disappointing 
results,  registered  at  both  the  regional  and  global 
levels.  I  will  dare  to  mention  sad  realities  candidly 
and honestly, in the hope that States and international 
organizations reconsider or make adjustments to their 
policies and actions with a view to upholding real hope 
for a better future.
In  that  effort  and  struggle  we  must  ensure  the 
cooperation  of  all,  but  more  so  of  the  States  and  the 
peoples  who  are  the  victims,  those  suffering  from 
problems such as the primacy of a State’s expansionist 
interests  over  the  territorial  integrity,  peace  and 
prosperity of other countries and peoples; investing in 
and  promoting  military  industries  and  infrastructure 
by  fomenting  conflict  for  financial  gain;  standing  by 
passively in the face of such violations of international 
law as the annexation of territories that fuels separatism 
and  civil  wars,  so  as  not  to  poison  relations  and 
common interests among friendly countries; and some 
States’ financing and promotion of terrorism in order to 
impose religious fundamentalism.
While more than 20 million people in north-eastern 
Nigeria, South Sudan, Yemen and Somalia face famine 
and  are  in  need  of  urgent  assistance,  and  while  more 
than 820 million people, including 155 million children, 
suffer from chronic malnutrition, there are countries in 
which immense quantities of animal and plant products 
are destroyed for the sake of narrow and blind economic 
and commercial considerations. While child mortality 
and life-threatening diseases persist and the quality of 
health services is below acceptable levels, we continue 
to face inflexible policies and practices that emasculate 
the relevant authorities and prevent them from providing 
necessary  medical  care.  Instead  of  tackling  the  root 
causes  leading  to  the  massive  migratory  flows  of 
millions of people, we content ourselves with setting up 
immigration detention centres. While we have adopted 
the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  to  address 
that global challenge, specific interests hinder both the 
design and the implementation of domestic policies that 
could deliver on our pledge and commitments.
All of the those factors, in addition to an inability 
to  effectively  implement  United  Nations  resolutions, 
have  led  to  unprecedented  crises  and  resulted  in 
a  lack  of  credibility,  trust  and  even  legitimacy  in 
our  decision-making,  bringing  about 
the  forcible 
displacement of millions of people, hunger and distress 
that  intensify  migration  flows,  create  demographic 
changes and exert huge economic and social pressures 
on  all  countries  or  regions  affected,  human  and  drug 
trafficking,  leading  to  millions  of  deaths,  and  the 
destruction of cultural heritage.
rise 
reverse 
targeted  and 
Despite  diverging  aspirations  and  conflicting 
to  meet  our  shared 
interests,  we  should 
responsibilities, 
the  policies  of  political 
expediency  that  I  have  already  mentioned,  adopt 
a  more  proactive, 
results-oriented 
approach  and  address  the  root  causes  that  have  led 
to  this  unprecedented  situation.  We  should  intensify 
our  efforts  to  make  sustainable  development  a  reality 
for  all  countries  and  regions  in  need,  once  and  for 
all,  by  establishing  the  political  and  socioeconomic 
conditions  necessary  for  stability,  economic  growth 
and institution-building. At the same time, we should 
also  work  to  confront  the  threats  posed  by  ongoing 
conflicts  efficiently,  in  order  to  achieve  lasting  and 
viable political solutions that promote regional peace, 
security and predictability and spare future generations 
from the plague of asymmetrical threats.
Collective leadership, together with the primacy of 
multilateralism, is the only way to effectively eliminate 
threats  to  peace  and  security.  We  therefore  need  to 
strengthen our support and commitment to the United 
Nations  and  safeguard  the  effective  implementation 
of  its  decisions  and  actions,  based  on  justice  and 
international law, which constitute the core and essence 
of the Organization.
In  that  context,  we  firmly  support  the  ambitious 
vision  of  Secretary-General  António  Guterres 
for  reforming  the  Organization  in  a  manner  that 
corresponds  to  the  needs  of  its  Member  States  and 
meets  the  expectations  of  our  peoples.  With  regard 
to  reforming  the  development  pillar,  we  reiterate  our 
full  commitment  to  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the 
United  Nations  so  that  it  can  become  more  effective 
6/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
and  transparent  in  its  efforts  to  implement  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which represents 
an integral part of our efforts to help all people to live 
in  dignity.  In  parallel,  we  must  take  further  action 
to  address  States’  vulnerability  to  climate  change, 
particularly  small  island  States,  just  as  we  need  to 
put  more  emphasis  on  implementing  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and accelerate efforts to that end.
Bearing  in  mind  the  ongoing  unstable  situations 
and  conflicts  in  Syria,  Iraq,  Yemen,  Libya,  Nigeria, 
Myanmar,  Afghanistan,  the  Sahel,  the  long-standing 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  and,  of  course,  the  still 
unresolved  problem  of  the  forcible  division  of  my 
country,  reforming  the  peace  and  security  pillar  is 
particularly important. We fully concur with the notion 
of  the  primacy  of  diplomacy  in  peacemaking  and 
conflict resolution and the supportive yet catalytic role 
of  peacekeeping  operations.  However,  we  must  admit 
that  the  former  is  in  jeopardy  without  the  latter,  and 
that  in  the  absence  of  a  negotiating  process,  the  need 
for peacekeeping becomes much greater and, in many 
cases,  indispensable.  The  situation  in  my  country  is 
a  meaningful  example  of  that.  Accordingly,  while  we 
remain  deeply  committed  to  adopting  the  necessary 
reforms related to this pillar, we strongly believe that 
each peacekeeping operation should be evaluated on its 
own merits, based on actual needs and threats on the 
ground. The risks involved are far too grave to allow for 
any experimentation in that regard.
in 
Notwithstanding  Cyprus’s  membership 
the 
European Union (EU), it is located at the epicentre of an 
area of extreme volatility and instability. Our quest is 
based on our vision and ambition of becoming a beacon 
of stability, predictability and synergy for the purposes 
of  promoting  shared  prosperity  and  stability  for  all. 
To  that  end,  and  as  a  unanimously  accepted  honest 
broker  with  no  hidden  agenda,  we  have  reinforced 
our  historically  close  ties  with  the  countries  in  our 
immediate neighbourhood, and, together with Greece, 
we have established trilateral partnerships with several 
of  our  neighbours,  including  Egypt,  Israel,  Lebanon, 
Jordan  and  Palestine.  Those  trilateral  mechanisms 
constitute  a  fitting  example  of  what  can  be  achieved 
when  countries  with  shared  concerns  and  common 
interests  join  forces  rather  than  isolating  themselves. 
In  short,  they  are  a  practical  expression  of  effective 
multilateralism,  fully  in  line  with  this  year’s  theme 
of  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable societies. Accordingly, I want to emphasize 
the partnerships are neither exclusionary nor directed 
against  any  third  country.  On  the  contrary,  they 
institutionalize cooperation and dialogue in our region, 
particularly  in  areas  in  which  there  are  comparative 
advantages, such as energy. In that regard, we warmly 
welcome  the  expansion  of  those  trilateral  formats  to 
include additional partners in other specific fields for 
mutually beneficial collaboration.
to  stress 
feel  obliged 
When  talking  about  the  importance  of  achieving 
peace  and  stability  in  our  immediate  neighbourhood 
and  the  means  by  which  that  can  be  accomplished, 
I 
the  significance  and 
consequent multiple benefits that would result from a 
comprehensive  solution  to  the  Cyprus  problem.  First 
and  foremost,  a  viable  and  lasting  settlement  would 
be  in  the  best  interests  of  the  people  of  Cyprus,  both 
Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots,  as  it  would  fulfil  their 
aspiration to live in a normal and prosperous European 
country,  fully  independent  and  free  from  any  foreign 
dependency. At the same time, I remain convinced that 
resolving the Cyprus problem will undoubtedly have a 
very  important  collateral  influence  on  achieving  and 
maintaining  a  much-needed  environment  of  stability 
and peace in the region. Last but not least, a resolution 
of  this  international  problem,  which  has  been  on  the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations  for  decades,  will  offer 
a beacon of hope and demonstrate that even the most 
intractable problems can be solved peacefully through 
the Organization. Unfortunately, as the peace process 
has  remained  at  an  impasse  since  the  conference  on 
Cyprus in July 2017, I am deeply concerned about the 
time that has elapsed and its consequences.
To  state  it  clearly,  only  a  viable  and  functional 
solution  to  the  Cyprus  problem,  in  line  with  the 
principles of our EU membership and the best practices 
of  the  democratic  countries  of  the  United  Nations, 
can  establish  the  conditions  for  achieving  lasting 
peace,  enabling  my  country  to  fully  hit  its  stride  and 
all  Cypriots  to  live  in  a  state  of  normalcy  and  work 
together for their prosperity and security. As I have said 
previously,  I  remain  strongly  and  truly  committed  to 
achieving a solution on the basis of the relevant United 
Nations resolutions and the European Union acquis, and 
continuing the negotiations on the six-point framework 
that the Secretary-General has set as the basis for the 
way  forward.  The  Secretary-General’s  framework 
and  good-offices  mission  constitute  the  only  path  to 
a solution.
18-30067
7/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
We  expect  that  Turkey,  which  has  a  key  role  to 
play  in  efforts  to  reach  a  settlement,  will  rise  to  the 
occasion,  demonstrate  the  political  will  necessary  for 
reaching  a  settlement  and  concretely  contribute  to 
regional  stability.  For  our  part,  I  want  to  repeat  once 
again that we are determined to rise to the challenge of 
our historic responsibility and do our utmost to provide 
a  peaceful  future  for  all  Cypriots  and  the  region  as 
a whole.
In  a  fragmented  and  multipolar  world,  we  have 
more  than  ever  a  moral,  ethical  and  political  duty  to 
promote  the  essence  of  human  civilization,  unite  our 
strength  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security 
and establish conditions that can bring prosperity and 
welfare to all. That perfectly matches the theme of this 
year’s session, and I hope that by next year we will be 
in a position to be proud of ourselves because we have 
taken significant steps towards fulfilling that vision.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Cyprus for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia.
the 
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ivanov  (spoke  in  Macedonian;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  This  year 
we  celebrate  the  centenary  of  the  end  of  the  First 
World  War.  The  League  of  Nations  was  supposed  to 
safeguard peace, but it failed. The United Nations rose 
from  the  ashes  of  the  Second  World  War  to  address 
a  world  that  had  been  destroyed  by  fascism,  Nazism, 
racism  and  colonialism.  By  adopting  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, a brave generation of leaders gave 
hope to the unprivileged, the oppressed and the denied 
that they would be able to exercise their right to self-
determination.
Seventy  years  ago,  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  represented  another  glimmer  of  hope 
for humankind, and thanks to the work of the United 
Nations  and  its  numerous  programmes,  that  hope 
became  realistic.  Through  peacekeeping  missions, 
arms  control,  non-proliferation  treaties  and  the  fight 
against terrorism and international organized crime, we 
built a safer world. The Sustainable Development Goals 
have helped us to focus our energy on reducing poverty, 
eradicating illness, enabling access to education, clean 
water  and  sanitation  and  creating  opportunities  for 
young  people.  With  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  we  are  fighting  climate  change  and  trying  to 
build communities and nations that are resilient where 
threats of disaster are concerned. As a result, millions 
of  people  today  are  living  better  lives  than  they  did 
a  decade  ago.  All  of  those  achievements  would  be 
unimaginable had we not united our efforts through the 
United Nations.
As President of the Republic of Macedonia, I can 
rightly say that the Macedonian people participated in 
the  creation  of  the  post-Second  World  War  order.  We 
were  on  the  right  side  of  history,  because,  even  back 
in  1941,  we  had  started  to  fight  the  evils  of  fascism 
and  Nazism.  The  Macedonian  State  participated 
in  the  creation  of  the  United  Nations.  In  1945,  the 
Federal  People’s  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  was  one  of 
the  founders  of  the  Organization.  As  a  constitutive 
Republic  with  a  right 
to  self-determination  and 
secession, Macedonia was therefore a de facto founder 
of  the  United  Nations.  As  a  State  within  the  Federal 
People’s Republic of Yugoslavia, we participated in the 
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and international pacts on civil and political, economic, 
social and cultural rights that guarantee human dignity, 
the  right  to  self-determination  as  well  as  the  right  of 
States  to  sovereign  equality.  On  8  September  1991, 
exercising our sovereign right to self-determination and 
secession,  we  peacefully  left  the  collapsing  Socialist 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and  proclaimed  an 
independent and sovereign Republic of Macedonia.
In all of that, a great injustice has been done, and 
this is what it is all about. To date, we have not been 
allowed  to  fully  enjoy  the  privileges  of  membership 
in  the  Organization  or  of  the  documents  in  whose 
creation we once participated. We have been denied the 
8/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
sovereign  right  to  call  ourselves  by  our  name,  as  if  a 
mere administrative region in Greece of the same name 
could have greater rights in international relations than 
a sovereign State such as the Republic of Macedonia.
Twenty-five  years  ago,  on  8  April  1993,  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  became  a  State  Member  of 
the  United  Nations.  And  yet  in  this  community  of 
equals before the law, the Republic of Macedonia was 
admitted as less equal, with a derogated legal status and 
a violated right to self-determination. Today, 25 years 
later, the talks within the United Nations on this matter 
may  end  with  the  adoption  of  the  so-called  Prespa 
final agreement, which, according to some, should put 
an end to the name dispute with Greece and open the 
way to membership for the Republic of Macedonia in 
the  European  Union  (EU)  and  NATO.  The  settlement 
begins with a grand preamble that would make even the 
authors of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
envious.  Ironically,  the  Prespa  agreement  violates  the 
same universal principles and standards that it refers to 
in its preamble, including the right to human dignity.
With regard to the rights that have been violated, I 
want to draw the General Assembly’s attention to one, 
the right to self-determination. Its meaning is that only 
a nation itself has the right to determine its destiny, and 
that no one has the right to forcibly interfere in the life 
of the nation, destroy its schools and other institutions, 
violate its traditions and customs, repress its language 
or  curtail  its  rights.  The  right  to  self-determination 
means that a nation may organize its life in the way it 
wishes, specifically on the basis of autonomy. It has the 
right to complete secession. Nations are sovereign and 
all nations have equal rights.
The right to self-determination is what empowers 
a people to choose their own name and the name of the 
State  that  they  create.  The  right  to  choose  a  name  is 
an  inalienable  part  of  the  right  to  self-determination. 
Only  by  respecting  the  right  to  self-determination 
can  the  United  Nations  be  relevant  for  all  people.  As 
a people, we have borne the name “Macedonians” for 
centuries and, as a State for 74 years, before the United 
Nations even existed. Our attachment to that name was 
confirmed 27 years ago, when we exercised our right to 
self-determination and proclaimed an independent and 
sovereign Republic of Macedonia.
Still,  through  the  Prespa  agreement,  Greece  is 
imposing a new name on us and is asking for an erga 
omnes  implementation  for  both  international  and 
domestic  use.  It  assumes  that  we  will  change  our 
Constitution,  meaning  that  Greece  would  become 
an  ultimate  authority  whose  approval  is  required  for 
other States’ constitutional amendments. Through this 
settlement Greece would be permitted to permanently 
monitor not only what we call ourselves but also how 
all States Members of the United Nations address us. It 
would be authorized to rename our institutions, censor 
the content of our children’s schoolbooks and prevent 
citizens  from  expressing  their  Macedonian  identity, 
including by regulating what we call our Macedonian 
language. A very important part of our way of life would 
therefore depend on Greek will. That would represent 
censorship  of  the  world  and  require  the  Macedonian 
people  to  censor  themselves.  It  does  violence  to  our 
collective historical memory.
There  are  hundreds  of  thousands  of  pages  of 
documents  and  testimonies  in  the  United  Nations 
archives  detailing  what  the  Greek  State  used  to  do 
to  Macedonians  in  Greece.  Now,  through  the  Prespa 
agreement, the Greek State is trying to do the exact same 
things to Macedonians in the Republic of Macedonia. 
Its aim is to limit the use of the name “Macedonians” to 
the smallest possible space, that is, the space between 
our ears, while requiring us to keep our mouths shut. It 
is a flagrant violation of the right to self-determination.
The  Prespa  agreement  is  the  bitter  fruit  of  a  tree 
that was poisoned long ago. It is a reflection of a hurtful 
compromise  flowing  from  the  1995  Interim  Accord. 
At  a  time  when  we  were  internationally  isolated,  the 
Interim  Accord,  achieved  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations, was supposed to guarantee that Greece 
would  not  block  our  integration  into  international 
organizations.  However, 
it  was  seriously  flawed. 
No  one  can  transfer  more  rights  to  another  than  they 
actually  possess.  And  yet  under  article  5  of  the  1995 
Interim  Accord  and  the  United  Nations-led  process, 
Greece was allowed to negotiate with the Republic of 
Macedonia  on  its  name,  in  a  violation  of  the  right  to 
self-determination.
The  Interim  Accord  itself  was  not  created  out  of 
thin air, as it originated in Security Council resolutions 
817  (1993)  and  845  (1993).  Although  the  Security 
Council noted that the Republic of Macedonia fulfilled 
the  criteria  for  United  Nations  membership  set  out  in 
Article 4 of the Charter, it nevertheless concluded that 
there was a dispute over the name of the State, making 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia’s  membership  subject  to 
the condition of accepting the provisional name of “the 
18-30067
9/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia” and imposing 
the  obligation  to  discuss  the  naming  issue.  That 
formulation  is  nothing  but  a  euphemism  for  violating 
the right to self-determination, which is how we arrived 
at the root of the problem.
The  right 
to  self-determination  was  violated 
when the Republic of Macedonia was admitted to the 
United  Nations.  The  Interim  Accord  and  the  Prespa 
agreement  were  adopted  to  justify  that  violation.  The 
Assembly  should  know  that  the  text  of  the  so-called 
Prespa agreement was prepared without my knowledge 
or consent as President of the Republic of Macedonia. 
Moreover,  the  agreement  violates  a  clause  in  our 
domestic  law  that  is  of  fundamental  importance.  In 
other words, the knot that began to form with resolutions 
817 (1993) and 845 (1993) and the Interim Accord has 
now, with the Prespa agreement, taken the shape of a 
hangman’s  noose.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  now 
being  asked  to  commit  legal  and  historical  suicide  so 
that the legal abolition of the Macedonian people can 
then be interpreted as the country’s own wilful decision. 
What does that say about global leadership and shared 
responsibility in the context of the United Nations?
Greece insists on an erga omnes implementation of 
the  imposed  name,  which  also  makes  the  violation  of 
the  right  to  self-determination  erga  omnes.  However, 
the International Court of Justice stated in its judgment 
in East Timor (Portugal v. Australia) of 30 June 1995 
that  the  right  to  self-determination  does  indeed  have 
an  erga  omnes  effect.  However,  that  very  important 
decision  was  overlooked  in  the  preparation  of  the 
Interim Accord three months later.
It has been said that the Macedonian case is unique 
in  the  United  Nations.  However,  the  United  Nations 
archives  contain  an  almost  identical  case  in  which  a 
Member State argues for denying an applicant country’s 
right to membership because of its name. I say “almost 
identical”  because  the  United  Nations  ignored  the 
Member  State’s  request  to  block  the  other  country’s 
entry.  And  all  of  that  happened  after  the  precedent 
we set. I ask the Assembly why the United Nations is 
unable  to  do  the  same  in  the  case  of  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia. Are all States not equally sovereign? Is the 
United Nations more relevant for some peoples and less 
relevant for others?
We are once again seeing an unprincipled Athens 
victorious over a peace-loving Melos, showing that the 
stronger do what they can and the weaker do what they 
must.  The  Prespa  agreement  puts  us  in  a  situation  of 
fait accompli, in which we are told that we are smaller 
and weaker and must therefore accept the ultimatum of 
Athens. Instead of being rewarded for our peace-loving 
nature, we have been punished for it. It seems to have 
been forgotten that the United Nations was created by 
visionaries  who  wanted  an  order  in  which  even  the 
smallest  and  weakest  of  peoples  would  be  protected, 
because  respecting  the  rights  of  small  peoples  and 
States is a barometer of the observance of the Charter 
and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Aristotle  claimed  that  whoever  is  not  part  of  the 
polis is either a beast or a god. What the individual used 
to be to the ancient cities is, in a way, what the State is 
to the international community today. Greece is acting 
as  if  it  is  not  bound  by  the  rules  of  the  international 
order. With such an attitude, I wonder in which category 
Aristotle  would  classify  the  cradle  of  democracy  in 
2018. If the United Nations is incapable of giving force 
to  a  just  law,  then  it  only  legitimizes  improper  force. 
An international order cannot be preserved by violating 
international law.
For  a  long  time,  we  were  persuaded  that  there 
was no other way. But through its fruit we recognized 
the tree. Through the Prespa agreement we have seen 
that we were misled into searching for a solution that 
would  mean  eroding  the  right  to  self-determination. 
How should we undo this complicated knot, this noose 
around our neck? The unravelling should begin where 
everything else began, with the violation of the right to 
self-determination.
The  Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties 
states very clearly that every agreement contrary to jus 
cogens standard is null and void. According to Article 
1,  paragraph  2,  and  Article  55  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter, one of the rights that falls under the jus cogens 
standard is the right to self-determination. Article 5 of 
the 1995 Interim Accord specifies negotiations on the 
right to self-determination, which makes it contrary to 
the  jus  cogens  standard,  which  means  that  the  entire 
1995 Interim Accord is null and void, as is the Prespa 
agreement that flows from it.
Mr.  Tiare  (Burkina  Faso),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
No  one  has  the  right  to  call  into  question  the 
decision of a people to choose their names or the name 
of the country they create, which is a decision derived 
from  the  right  to  self-determination,  which  has  been 
10/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
established as an absolute right of all peoples. Only the 
right  to  self-determination,  and  not  its  violation,  can 
have an erga omnes effect.
As I am speaking in this Hall, in my country, the 
Republic of Macedonia, my fellow citizens are counting 
down the last hours to the holding of a referendum on 
the Prespa agreement, on which they have been asked 
to  express  themselves.  In  the  past  few  weeks,  many 
high-profile  foreign  representatives  have  visited  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia.  I  know  that  many  of  them 
sincerely  wish  to  help  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
become part of the European Union and NATO, and I 
thank them for their good intentions from the bottom of 
my heart. However, I am afraid that they too have been 
misled.  Their  message  is  that  if  the  referendum  fails 
and  the  Prespa  agreement  is  not  accepted,  we  cannot 
hope for membership in NATO or the European Union. 
I say to them that if they take away our hope, what will 
we be left with? They must help us by unblocking the 
way for the Republic of Macedonia to accede to EU and 
NATO membership without violating the right to self-
determination in the process.
Many  of  those  representatives  have  been  trying  
to  persuade  Macedonian  citizens  to  accept  the  Greek 
proposal.  I  would  like  to  ask  them  if  they  would 
accept  a  derogation  of  the  right  to  self-determination 
of their own peoples and countries. Would they accept 
interference in their internal affairs, or any other breach 
of  their  sovereignty  and  political  independence?  Why 
then  are  we  being  asked  to  accept  something  that  no 
one else in the world would? They must stop trying to 
persuade us to eat this poisoned fruit. It is high time for 
the poisoned tree to be uprooted and its fruit discarded.
In  the  last  few  hours  before  the  silence  of  the 
referendum, I therefore want to convey a message to my 
fellow citizens in the Republic of Macedonia. Voting on 
a referendum is their right, and it is not an obligation. In 
accordance with article 7, item 3 of our referendum law, 
no one shall be held responsible for voting or not voting 
in a referendum. Every citizen has the right to decide 
how to act with regard to the referendum, whether by 
going out and voting or staying at home and boycotting.
Just  as  the  referendum  on  8  September  1991  led 
to  sovereignty  and  independence,  the  referendum  on 
30  September  may  lead  to  a  state  of  subordination 
to  another  country  and  dependence  on  it,.  If  the 
referendum succeeds, then in accordance with the law 
not only will the country’s existing name be changed, 
a new, semi-sovereign country will be created, with a 
new  name  and  a  new  internal  and  international  legal 
identity.  We  will  be  a  State  only  in  name  and  not  in 
substance,  because  others  will  have  succeeded  in 
regulating our way of life.
However, if the referendum fails, a new possibility 
arises  for  discussing  and  exploring  new  options  for 
resolving  the  issue,  in  accordance  with  international 
law  and  with  respect  for  our  fundamental  right  to 
self-determination.  There  will  be  an  opportunity  to 
renew  the  national  consensus  that  we  achieved  at 
the  beginning  of  our  independence.  It  does  not  take 
courage to capitulate. It takes courage to persist in the 
realization  of  a  country’s  right  to  self-determination 
and to preserving its sovereignty and independence. It 
takes courage to tell the truth.
This 30 September will be decisive for our future. 
And at the same time, for centuries, 30 September has 
traditionally been the day when we celebrate the faith, 
hope  and  love  that  arise  from  wisdom.  I  ask  citizens 
not  to  lose  faith  in  themselves,  because  the  future  of 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  depends  on  them.  They 
must  not  lose  their  hope  and  patriotic  love  for  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  because  only  as  a  sovereign 
and independent country can it be a guardian of their 
freedom and human dignity. As a citizen, I have made 
my  decision.  On  30  September,  I  will  not  go  out  to 
vote.  I  believe  that  my  fellow  citizens  will  make  a 
wise decision.
I also want to address the representatives of States 
Members of the United Nations. This irrational dispute 
has  had  detrimental  consequences  for  the  Republic 
of  Macedonia  and  its  citizens.  Thanks  to  Greek 
blockades, we have been denied our right to prosperity. 
Unfortunately,  all  of  that  has  had  an  impact  on  the 
sustainability  of  a  multi-ethnic,  multireligious  and 
multilingual  Macedonian  society,  a  society  that  has 
actively contributed to peace, stability and security in 
the region and in Europe for the past 27 years.
The  position  of  the  authorities  in  Athens  is 
contrary not only to international law and the decisions 
of  Macedonian  citizens,  but  also  to  the  will  of  the 
almost  140  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations 
that  have  recognized  the  Republic  of  Macedonia’s 
fundamental  right  to  self-determination  of  and  to  use 
its  constitutional  name.  As  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  I  urge  all  States  that  have  already 
recognized the Republic of Macedonia and established 
18-30067
11/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
diplomatic  relations  under  its  constitutional  name  not 
to change their decision. They must demonstrate their 
sovereignty  by  remaining  faithful  to  the  principled 
decisions they have made, without any kind of pressure. 
They must help us by being the guardians of our right 
to  self-determination,  thereby  safeguarding  their  own 
right to self-determination.
Modern  history  has  shown  that  the  Balkans  is  a 
birthplace of precedents. If we are subject to damaging 
precedents  that  limit  our  sovereignty  and  political 
independence,  it  is  only  a  matter  of  time  before  such 
precedents are applied in other States. What does that 
say  about  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  for  all 
people, about leadership and shared responsibility?
I have always advocated and actively contributed to 
the building of a true and lasting partnership between 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  Greece,  as  well  as 
friendship and trust between the Macedonian and Greek 
societies.  However,  if  the  only  way  to  accommodate 
the  irrational  demands  of  the  Greek  side  is  through 
measures  imposed  on  the  Macedonian  side,  what  we 
get are relations without trust. The agreement does not 
bring Macedonians and Greeks together but rather sets 
them apart.
The Greek and Macedonian societies should learn 
how to live together despite their deep differences. To 
reach  a  real,  sustainable  and  lasting  agreement,  we 
need dialogue rather than monologue, arguments rather 
than ideas imposed by force and mutual respect rather 
than  denial.  Only  by  supporting  that  just  approach 
will  the  United  Nations  be  relevant  in  our  case  and 
demonstrate leadership and shared responsibility. The 
United  Nations  can  be  relevant  only  if  it  respects  its 
own principles.
It  is  possible  that  even  as  I  speak  statements  are 
being written condemning my speech. Most often the 
first  reaction  to  truth  is  hatred.  Truth  uncovers  lies, 
unfulfilled promises and guilty consciences. And there 
are a lot of guilty consciences involved in the case of 
Macedonia. However, truth also liberates and enables 
us  to  accept  guilt,  to  correct  mistakes  and  heal  the 
wounds  from  the  violation  of  our  fundamental  right 
to  self-determination  and  human  dignity.  The  simple 
truth  is  that  we  are  Macedonians  and  our  country  is 
the Republic of Macedonia. By respecting this simple 
truth of our identity, members of this organ respect our 
human dignity, which is enshrined in the foundations of 
freedom, justice and peace in the world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
the 
Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro 
Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Equatorial  Guinea,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 
Spanish): On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the 
Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea’s  independence,  on 
12 October, I would like to extend a greeting of peace and 
freedom to all the nations of the world as an expression 
of the gratitude of the people of Equatorial Guinea for 
the  most  resounding  success  of  the  United  Nations 
since its creation in 1945, the liberation of all colonized 
peoples.  Indeed,  the  well-being  of  humankind,  a 
fundamental objective of the United Nations, could not 
be achieved if the freedom and dignity of peoples and 
nations  were  constrained  by  the  subjugation  of  some 
peoples by others through the colonial system. For that 
reason, my delegation would like to to once again raise 
its  voice  in  this  global  setting  to  call  for  the  end  of 
strongholds of colonialism, wherever they may be and 
whatever form they take.
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea wholeheartedly 
congratulates  Her  Excellency  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  as  a 
reflection of both the gender equality the Organization 
seeks  to  uphold  and  the  political  pragmatism  of  her 
country,  the  Republic  of  Ecuador,  in  its  scrupulous 
respect  for  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
12/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Nations.  We  believe  that  under  her  leadership  the 
United Nations will achieve the successes it desires.
natural resources and the promotion of fair and equitable 
cooperation with reciprocal benefits among States.
its  seventy-second  session.  By 
We also congratulate His Excellency Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák,  the  outgoing  President,  on  his  indisputable 
successes and outstanding work in leading the General 
Assembly  at 
the 
same  token,  the  work  of  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency Mr. António Guterres, deserves our praise 
for the dynamism with which he has been leading all 
the bodies of the United Nations with a view to making 
them less bureaucratic and bringing their efforts closer 
to Member States.
represent 
the  greatest  concerns  of 
The  topics  selected  for  discussion  during  this 
session 
the 
international  community.  Economically  speaking, 
despite the numerous resolutions and recommendations 
adopted by the United Nations for promoting nations’ 
sustainable  growth  and  economic  development,  an 
insurmountable gap between developed and developing 
countries continues making it more difficult to maintain 
peace and stability in poor countries. That compels us 
to  set  aside  our  ambitions  and  pride  and  support  the 
achievement of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda 2063 with all the means available to us.
A supposedly globalized world in which imbalance, 
marginalization and instability reign would be difficult 
on  every  front,  political,  economic,  social  and  moral. 
In  that  regard,  the  current  problems  of  mass  and 
uncontrolled immigration of populations from South to 
North, the internal instabilities of developing countries 
and  rebel  and  terrorist  movements  throughout  the 
world are clear reactions to the problems of poverty and 
underdevelopment suffered by developing countries as 
a  result  of  behaviour  that  shows  injustice  and  a  lack 
of solidarity. We cannot guarantee international peace 
and  security  while  those  pockets  of  violence  remain, 
jeopardizing the lives of populations.
The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  as  a 
non-permanent  member  of 
the  Security  Council, 
will  always  support  and  give  priority  to  preventive 
diplomacy  to  avoid  conflicts  and  foster  dialogue, 
agreements, negotiation and the peaceful resolution of 
conflicts. Above all, we ask for scrupulous observance 
of the principles of international law, particularly with 
regard to respect for the independence and sovereignty 
of  each  State,  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  other  nations,  every  country’s  right  to  use  its  own 
tolerance  among 
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea also praises and 
commends the peace processes undertaken — through 
dialogue,  compromise  and 
the 
parties  —  between  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ethiopia 
and  Somalia,  and  between  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, the Republic of Korea and the United 
States of America with respect to the Korean peninsula. 
Equatorial  Guinea  calls  for  similar  resolutions  of 
other conflicts in the world, such as those in Djibouti, 
Somalia,  Afghanistan,  Myanmar,  Syria,  Yemen,  the 
Middle  East,  Libya,  South  Sudan,  Central  Africa, 
Burundi,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
Guinea-Bissau.
For Equatorial Guinea, coercive decisions such as 
Security  Council  sanctions  have  never  resolved  any 
conflict  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations.  Neither 
have  armed  interventions  resolved  substantive  issues. 
On the contrary, they are opposed to the principles of 
State independence and sovereignty that endow States 
with responsibilities. We therefore insist on the value of 
negotiation as a political and moral tool that is capable 
of satisfying the parties to a conflict. Contrary to their 
claims,  obligatory  condemnations  trigger  defensive 
behaviour  from  the  State  in  question,  whether  out  of 
pride  or  in  self-defence.  Worst  of  all,  such  decisions 
usually result in depriving the affected peoples of their 
most fundamental rights.
As  a  matter  of  international  justice,  Equatorial 
Guinea  believes  in  the  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council  to  make  it  more  democratic,  representative 
and  capable  of  guaranteeing  the  interests  that  shape 
the current global framework. The Council’s structure, 
adopted  in  1945,  is  obsolete,  since  our  world  is  no 
longer  governed  by  the  political  criteria  of  the  time. 
In  that  regard,  the  African  continent  is  the  future  of 
humankind today and should not remain marginalized 
from major decisions that may affect the whole world. 
The  Security  Council,  which  is  partly  to  blame  for 
Africa’s marginalization, must also feel responsible for 
the recent conflicts in the Sahel region and the ongoing 
unbridled immigration from Africa to Europe.
With 
regard 
to  my 
country’s 
domestic 
development, despite the significant oil crisis affecting 
Equatorial  Guinea,  socioeconomic  development  is 
evolving  positively,  thanks  to  the  prevailing  peace. 
We  can  therefore  expect  to  see  the  country  recover 
18-30067
13/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
economically  relatively  soon.  And  our 
transition 
programme  towards  a  multiparty  system,  initiated  in 
1992, has been characterized by an inclusive democratic 
openness  and  permanent  dialogue  open  to  all.  In  its 
first year we recognized 14 political parties, a number 
that has now risen to 18 in a country with fewer than 
1.5 million inhabitants.
Over  that  period  we  have  held  six  rounds  of 
inclusive  dialogue  with  opposition  political  parties, 
which has resulted not only in the recognition of new 
political  parties,  but  has  also  produced  reform  of 
the  Constitution  and  of  other  laws  regulating  public 
freedoms. As a result, Heads of State are now limited to 
two successive terms, whereas before they could hold 
office indefinitely. Several control bodies for managing 
public affairs have also been created.
The  socioeconomic  development  plan  adopted 
following  our  second  national  economic  conference, 
in  2000,  envisaged  economic  recovery  by  2020.  Its 
most significant results have been the construction of 
basic  economic  infrastructure  such  as  roads,  ports, 
airports,  environmental  sanitation  facilities,  modern 
hospitals,  vocational  and  university  training  centres, 
drinking water systems, telecommunications and power 
infrastructure and, more recently, the transformation of 
densely  populated  rural  hubs  throughout  the  country 
into small modern cities.
Human capacity-building has achieved such levels 
that  citizens  are  able  to  responsibly  manage  national 
development,  which  has  created  an  atmosphere 
of  trust  between  national  political  forces  and  the 
people,  who  feel  empowered  to  realize  their  own 
objectives. In its  the effects of the economic crisis, the 
Government  is  planning  a  third  phase  of  the  national 
economic  conference  with  a  view  to  purposefully 
spearheading  the  socioeconomic  development  plan 
initially  set  for  2020.  We  call  for  the  cooperation  of 
friendly  countries  and  for  multilateral  assistance  to 
support the Government’s efforts, which are currently 
geared  to  the  diversification  of  production  sources, 
industrialization  and  the  development  of  the  national 
economy’s production sector, as well as capitalizing on 
existing infrastructure.
The  United  Nations  should  serve  as  a  forum  for 
cooperative  exchanges  that  promote  the  development 
of humankind as well as a forum for dialogue.
Finally, 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
believes that the United Nations is the highest body of 
multilateral diplomacy within which, if we all adhere 
equally  to  the  general  principles  of  international  law, 
we can not only guarantee world peace and stability but 
also build more developed societies that guarantee the 
rights of all the peoples of the world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Jovenel Moïse, President of the 
Republic of Haiti
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Haiti.
Mr.  Jovenel  Moïse,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jovenel 
Moïse, President of the Republic of Haiti, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
talent  will  certainly  guarantee 
President Moïse (spoke in French): At the outset, 
allow  me  to  congratulate  President  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Her  unanimously 
recognized 
qualities  and 
the 
success  of  the  work  of  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session. I would also like to welcome the presence 
of  the  Secretary-General  and  to  acknowledge  his 
courageous efforts to improve the effectiveness of the 
United Nations system, as part of the collective search 
for, in the words of Pope Francis, the “common good 
of humanity”.
Over  the  years,  the  General  Assembly  has  been 
confronted  with  two  underlying  questions  related  to 
the  main  topics  on  its  agenda.  How  can  we  optimize 
our  mechanisms  for  maintaining  international  peace 
and  security?  And  how  can  we  translate  the  need  for 
international  solidarity  into  a  much  more  effective 
system of cooperation, capable of promoting sustainable 
development and eradicating poverty in the world?
14/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
The  United  Nations  has  rightly  shed  light  on  the 
close  links  between  the  eradication  of  poverty  and 
the  promotion  of  sustainable  development,  peace 
and  security.  Similarly,  the  fight  against  poverty  is 
inextricably linked to the promotion of human rights. 
Extreme poverty is a denial of human dignity and must 
therefore  be  at  the  heart  of  United  Nations  efforts, 
allowing  hundreds  of  millions  of  men  and  women  to 
cherish the hope of one day seeing its eradication.
Intensifying  the  fight  against  global  warming, 
which is one of the most serious threats to humankind, 
must  also  be  one  of  the  international  community’s 
urgent priorities. The 2016 Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change  was  a  milestone  in  this  regard.  Every  effort 
should  also  be  made  to  ensure  that  international 
obligations and the commitments that arise from them 
are  respected.  We  are  well  aware  that  climate-change 
adaptation  and  mitigation  regimes  and  precautionary 
measures to alleviate damage are extremely costly. One 
component  of  any  sustainable  development  strategy, 
the  mitigation  of  natural  hazards,  is  essential  as  an 
investment  today  in  anticipation  of  events  that  may 
occur  tomorrow.  However,  to  date,  the  funding  is 
clearly inadequate to a response that matches the scope 
of the challenges before us.
Mobilizing  new  resources  for  climate  change  is  a 
top priority. We should point out that the world’s most 
vulnerable  countries,  especially  small  island  States, 
and  above  all  those  in  the  Caribbean,  including  the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  emit  few  greenhouse  gases,  and 
yet suffer most of the damage caused by increasingly 
frequent and violent hurricanes. The promises made at 
last year’s One Planet Summit in Paris to enable those 
countries to adapt their environments and mitigate the 
ravaging effects of climate change must be kept.
I would like to shed some light on the situation in 
Haiti one year after the closure of the United Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  (MINUSTAH),  which 
was  succeeded  by  the  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Justice Support in Haiti. Since assuming the presidency 
of  the  Republic  of  Haiti,  I  have  worked  tirelessly  to 
consolidate  the  rule  of  law,  deepen  democratic  gains 
and  promote  human  rights,  as  I  am  firmly  convinced 
of the absolute necessity of modernizing our economic, 
social  and  political  structures  in  order  to  enable  my 
country to emerge from the trap of underdevelopment. 
I  have  spared  no  effort  to  ensure  that  institutions  are 
stable and create a safe and stable environment that is 
conducive to investment and restarting growth. In the 
face of ever scarcer resources and the strong pressure of 
the population’s needs, the Caravan of Change is, in this 
respect, an innovative strategy that aims to put all the 
State’s resources at the service of the Haitian people.
The  social,  political  and  economic  modernization 
processes undertaken by the Government have achieved 
numerous tangible results over the past 18 months. In 
this regard, I need only refer to the Secretary-General’s 
latest  report  on  Haiti  (S/2018/795),  which  highlights 
the important progress made in terms of political and 
institutional  stability,  the  protection  of  human  rights, 
strengthening  the  judicial  system  and  improving  the 
security environment. However, despite these advances, 
we must recognize that our sluggish economic growth 
continues to weigh heavily on the national strategy for 
development and sustaining peace.
The  fact  is  that  we  are  facing  interrelated  and 
wide-ranging  challenges  that  are  compounded  by 
population pressure, major urbanization, environmental 
degradation  and  extreme  vulnerability  to  natural 
disasters.  The  2010  earthquake,  the  Assembly  will 
recall,  caused  damage  equal  to  120  per  cent  of  our 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP).  On  top  of  that,  the 
damage  from  Hurricane  Matthew  was  equivalent  to 
32 per cent of GDP. This structural and environmental 
vulnerability is not without consequences.
In July, following the enforcement of a law on a fuel 
price adjustment backed by the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF), we experienced an unfortunate and painful 
popular uprising in response to the requirements of the 
IMF-backed staff-monitored programme. Haiti, which 
does  not  produce  oil,  is  therefore  dealing  with  the 
difficult  requirement  of  having  to  continue  financing 
Government fuel subsidies.
The  violent  expression  of  discontent  from  some 
parts  of  the  population  cannot  be  underestimated.  It 
acutely highlighted the key issue of the risks associated 
with  extreme  socioeconomic  insecurity  and  a  lack  of 
economic prospects, as well as the fragility of the gains 
we  have  made  so  far.  However  real  and  indisputable 
those hard-fought gains may be, they may be jeopardized 
without adequate long-term support.
One of the lessons that we have learned from the 
crisis  is  that  while  structural  reforms  are  essential, 
they are lengthy processes that cannot be accomplished 
in  a  short  time  or  subjected  to  the  often  overly  rigid 
conditions that are imposed by technical and financial 
partners without taking into account the socioeconomic 
18-30067
15/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
realities  of  each  country.  While  I  do  not  wish  to 
assign  blame,  I  should  note  that  the  recent  uprising 
was in large part the result of an overly narrow vision 
of  development  aid  that  does  not  always  allow  our 
international  partners  to  recognize  the  need  for  a 
less  fragmented  and  rigid,  more  integrated  and  more 
coherent  approach  to  interrelated  development  and 
security issues that is much more in line with the five 
principles of the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness 
and the Accra Agenda for Action.
In  other  words,  the  success  of  the  strategy  for 
sustaining peace and the gains made, which is vitally 
important to us, depends largely on our ability to obtain 
the additional resources that will enable us to overcome 
our  structural  handicaps,  including  boosting  public 
investment  in  critical  infrastructure  and  overcoming 
obstacles to growth that keep nearly three quarters of 
the population below the poverty line.
I would like to reiterate here, before the Assembly, 
the  solemn  commitment  I  have  made  to  the  Haitian 
people  and  the  international  community  to  spare  no 
effort  in  resolutely  guiding  the  country  on  a  path  to 
a  sustainable  development  that  is  based  on  the  rule 
of  law,  political  stability,  the  tireless,  relentless  and 
persistent struggle against corruption in all its forms, 
the  modernization  of 
institutions,  socioeconomic 
progress and the consolidation of democratic gains and 
achievements in the field of human rights, which, I am 
convinced, are irreversible.
include 
improving 
the 
through 
immediately 
the  population 
The newly formed Government of National Unity 
has embarked on that task with a renewed plan of action 
and  a  number  of  priority  objectives  and  benchmarks. 
They 
living 
conditions  of  the  most  disadvantaged  and  vulnerable 
segments  of 
innovative 
programmes; improving the business climate; reviving 
public  and  private  investment  for  growth  and  the 
creation of jobs, in order to foster the expansion of the 
middle class and significantly reduce social inequality 
and exclusion in all its forms; pursuing further reforms 
aimed at consolidating the rule of law, strengthening the 
justice system and the national police force, alongside 
the ongoing remobilization of the Haitian armed forces; 
fighting corruption in all its forms and manifestations; 
holding  legislative  elections  in  October  2019,  as 
planned;  and  intensifying  measures  to  strengthen  the 
promotion and defence of human rights.
At  this  crossroads,  I  urge  our  partners  in  the 
international  community  to  continue  to  offer  the 
Haitian people active solidarity, within the framework 
of  a  renewed,  coherent  and  substantial  assistance 
programme,  which  will  be  aligned  with  national 
priorities  and  implemented  in  close  collaboration 
with  national  institutions  and  the  private  business 
sector,  and  thereby  better  adapted  to  the  realities  on 
the  ground.  This  paradigm  shift  will  significantly 
strengthen national efforts and contribute to achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  that  we  have  set 
for ourselves as a first step and to eradicating poverty 
by 2030.
We  cannot  repeat  it  often  enough  —  peace, 
development and security go hand in hand . They must 
be  adequately  supported  by  appropriate  long-term 
investment.  In  particular,  they  require  an  allocation 
of  resources  better  adapted  to  the  real  needs  of 
recipient countries, taking into account their structural 
vulnerabilities.  This  resource  allocation  must  be 
more flexible and less subject to conditions that could 
ultimately undermine the very viability of reforms and 
key  development  goals,  including  long-term  stability. 
Access  to  good  electrical,  digital,  school,  health, 
environmental,  hydraulic  and  road  infrastructure  is 
a  prerequisite  for  any  country  that  aims  to  achieve 
sustainable development. The Republic of Haiti received 
nearly $11 billion in donations and loans between 2006 
and 2016, and yet some of that infrastructure is still not 
in place.
How  can  we  talk  about  sustainable  development 
when there is no drinking water in families’ taps? How 
can  we  speak  of  sustainable  development  when  there 
is no water for the irrigation of agricultural land? How 
can  we  speak  of  sustainable  development  when  there 
are no good roads linking cities and villages? How can 
we speak of sustainable development when there is no 
electrical or digital infrastructure? How can we speak 
of sustainable development when there is no adequate 
school or sanitary infrastructure? It is those questions 
that  we  ask  ourselves,  the  answers  to  which  we  are 
tirelessly striving to find for the Haitian people.
In  order  to  build  a  suitable  electrical  and  digital 
transmission  and  distribution  network  over  Haiti’s 
27,750  square  kilometres,  we  need  approximately 
$400 million. The Republic of Haiti has nearly 1 million 
hectares  of  agricultural  land,  half  of  which  can  be 
easily irrigated. Unfortunately, only 5 per cent of that 
land is irrigated, meaning that we need $675 million to 
16/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
make  an  additional  450,000  hectares  viable.  We  need 
only  220  million  cubic  metres  of  water  each  year  to 
make  household  tap  water  available  across  Haiti.  Yet 
40  billion  cubic  metres  of  surface  water  are  dumped 
into  the  sea  every  year.  Approximately  $300  million 
would enable us to treat the 220 million cubic metres 
needed to serve all of Haiti’s communes.
We need to produce 50 million fruit and forest tree 
seedlings each year to be able to reforest the country. 
The construction of 14 germplasm and plant propagation 
centres,  which  would  be  able  to  produce  63  million 
seedlings a year, costs approximately $35 million. With 
regard  to  education,  we  need  15,000  classrooms  to 
enable the 500,000 children who are not yet in school 
to  have  access  to  a  good  basic  education.  We  need 
approximately $450 million to build those classrooms. 
Moreover,  we  need  122  health-care  centres  to  fill  the 
deficit across communes, which will cost $20 million. I 
also take this opportunity to challenge the international 
community on the obligation to mobilize resources to 
eliminate cholera, which was introduced by MINUSTAH 
in  Haiti,  and  to  compensate  the  victims.  In  addition, 
in order to connect and renovate the 146 communes of 
Haiti  and  improve  certain  sections  of  roads,  we  need 
$800 million. From this rostrum, I would like to say to 
our  technical  and  financial  partners  that  together  we 
must muster the courage to rethink development aid for 
Haiti and other countries in similar situations, using the 
2005  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness  and  the 
2008 Accra Agenda for Action as our guides.
With  the  Republic  of  Haiti’s  meagre  financial 
resources, we have begun to rebuild the country. Today 
more  than  ever,  we  need  that  synergy  to  build  the 
future  of  our  country.  We  must  work  together,  while 
scrupulously  respecting  Haiti’s  priorities.  The  fight 
against corruption that began on 7 February 2017 cannot 
remain wishful thinking. It is a battle that will allow us 
to  bequeath  to  future  generations  a  better  country  in 
which life is worth living.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Haiti for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Jovenel  Moïse,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echenique, 
President of the Republic of Chile
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Chile.
Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echenique, President of the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sebastián 
Piñera Echenique, President of the Republic of Chile, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Piñera  Echenique  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Twenty  years  ago,  in  this  very  Hall,  Kofi  Annan  set 
out the three great challenges facing the international 
community at the time: first, the challenge of security 
and the need to replace the post-Cold War world order 
with  a  new  one,  governed  by  peace  and  freedom; 
secondly,  the  challenge  of  development  and  the  need 
to  ensure  that  globalization  benefited  all  peoples  and 
countries, leaving no one behind; thirdly, the challenge 
of  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  the  need  to 
protect the dignity of all without distinction as to race, 
colour,  gender,  language  or  any  other  discriminatory 
factor (see A/53/PV.7).
Twenty years have now gone by, and the challenges 
bequeathed 
to  us  by  Kofi  Annan  —  security, 
development  and  human  rights  —  remain  just  as 
important  and  are  still  key  challenges  to  our  world 
order.  These  challenges,  of  course,  come  under  new 
guises  and  take  on  various  forms.  We  are  no  longer 
divided  by  the  mistrust,  fear  and  prejudice  that  were 
the legacy of the walls and iron curtains that emerged 
in the wake of the Second World War. The truth is that 
many  factors  unite  us  in  terms  of  human  dignity  and 
freedoms, and we are connected by a knowledge- and 
information-based society that has enabled those who 
embrace  it  to  reap  the  benefits  but  is  indifferent  and 
cruel to those who turn their back to it. We are living at 
a time of vast global transformation, which means the 
emergence of tremendous new opportunities as well as 
major new dangers.
Some  believed  that  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  also 
meant the end of history, and that we had at last found 
our way and were approaching an era of peace, freedom 
and  prosperity,  based  on  democracy  and  the  social 
18-30067
17/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
market economy. However, history will never meet its 
end as long as there are still free men and women who 
think for themselves. Accordingly, a new world order 
has  emerged  that  has  given  rise  to  new  divisions  and 
tensions in many parts of the world. States are no longer 
the only main players in international relations.
In the area of security, we have not yet been able 
to  overcome  serious  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security  such  as  terrorism,  drug  trafficking, 
armed  conflict,  organized  crime,  the  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  illicit  trafficking  in 
weapons  and  persons.  Furthermore,  as  never  before, 
today  we  are  compelled  to  face  one  of  the  biggest 
challenges resulting from these threats to international 
peace  and  security  —  large-scale  migration  around 
the  world,  which  is  a  significant  challenge  for  the 
entire  international  community.  We  are  aware  of  its 
causes — terrorism, war, ethnic and religious conflict, 
hunger  and  totalitarian  regimes,  all  of  which  have 
recently  caused  the  largest  displacement  of  people  in 
the  history  of  humankind.  The  figures  are  stark  and 
speak for themselves. There are currently 260 million 
people who have had to leave their countries of origin. 
Every year more than 1.3 million people abandon their 
countries for the reasons I have mentioned.
In the light of that situation, Chile’s commitment is 
categorical and clear. We are designing a safe, orderly 
and  regular  migration  policy,  in  line  with  the  New 
York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants  and  the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, 
which raise the need to establish migration policies that 
guarantee safe, orderly and regular migration. We want 
to receive and welcome all who enter Chile seeking new 
and better lives, who do so with the intention of obeying 
our laws, committing to the development of our country 
and to integrating into our society. With equal strength 
and  conviction,  however,  we  want  to  keep  order  in 
our  country  and  bar  those  who  enter  illegally,  break 
our  laws,  come  to  commit  crimes  or  have  committed 
serious crimes in their countries of origin. By doing so 
we can prevent and impede the entry of drug traffickers 
and  people  involved  in  organized  crime,  because  all 
Presidents  and  Heads  of  State  and  Government  are 
responsible for their citizens’ safety, which is of course 
a key concern for any Government.
Our  migration  policy  seeks  to  strike  a  balance 
between  the  State’s  sovereign  right  to  regulate  the 
manner  in  which  migrants  enter  and  remain  in  our 
country,  on  the  one  hand,  and  its  duty  to  respect 
and  guarantee  the  fundamental  rights  and  duties  of 
migrants,  on  the  other,  by  putting  a  stop  to  irregular 
immigration,  punishing  criminal  acts  and  welcoming 
those who come to integrate legally into our societies 
in accordance with the law.
The  second  great  challenge  is  development.  Six 
months  ago,  when  I  embarked  on  my  second  term 
as  President  of  Chile,  I  pledged  to  undertake  a  great 
mission — transforming Chile into a developed country 
without poverty and with greater equality of opportunity 
and solidarity by the end of the next decade. Genuine 
development is much more than economic growth. We 
are therefore talking about comprehensive development 
that encompasses all aspects of our lives, an inclusive 
development  that  reaches  all  families,  individuals  and 
regions, and a sustainable development that protects and 
is in aligned with nature and the environment. That is 
the genuine development that all peoples and countries 
need and that we almost all ratified through our previous 
commitment to the Millennium Development Goals and 
now  through  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
to  which  we  are  committed  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations.
For  that  reason,  the  importance  of  defending  and 
strengthening multilateralism and free trade, to which 
many  have  alluded  this  week,  is  now  severely  under 
threats  from  such  things  as  trade  and  tariff  wars,  the 
consequences of which we felt as long ago as the Great 
Depression  of  the  previous  century.  The  economic 
dimension  is,  of  course,  very  important.  More  than 
ever, we need to promote and bolster an international 
system that is predictable and based on clear and agreed 
standards,  fosters  free  trade  and  enables  mechanisms 
for  settling  disputes  peacefully  rather  than  through 
conflict, confrontation or tariff wars.
However,  we  must  also  think  about  creating  a 
culture  and  an  international  community  that  are  built 
on the principles and values of freedom, human dignity, 
full respect for human rights, gender equality and the 
fight  against  climate  change  and  other  new  emerging 
threats, such as those related to cyberspace.
Such  comprehensive,  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development compels us to implement robust measures 
aimed  at  ensuring  full  equality  in  terms  of  rights, 
dignity  and  opportunities  for  both  women  and  men, 
as  well  as  a  culture  of  zero  tolerance  for  violence  or 
discrimination  against  women.  Our  true  development 
18/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
can  be  measured  by  the  way  in  which  we  treat  our 
societies’ most vulnerable members, such as children, 
women,  elderly  people,  those  suffering  from  disease 
and  the  poorest.  In  many  of  those  areas,  many  of 
our countries still have a long way to go.
Some 
time 
Today our planet faces major threats and challenges, 
such as a deteriorating environment, global warming, 
growing  desertification,  the  destruction  of  the  ozone 
layer,  the  depletion  of  natural  resources,  the  loss  of 
biodiversity, as well as air, water and soil pollution and 
deforestation, to name just a few.
ago,  major 
and  well-regarded 
magazines  published  photographs  of  the  Earth  with 
the  caption  “Save  planet  Earth”.  But  that  should  not 
be  our  greatest  concern.  Planet  Earth  has  existed  for 
more  than  4  billion  years  and  has  survived  all  kinds 
of  catastrophes  —  flooding,  glaciation,  warming  and 
earthquakes. What is actually at risk is the survival of 
the human race on planet Earth. During its long history, 
99 out of every 100 species that have ever existed have 
now  disappeared.  Naturally,  we  do  not  want  to  add 
human beings to that sad list of extinct species.
We know that the environment is changing and that 
global warming is occurring faster than our efforts to 
understand, halt and stop it. The alarm bells continue 
to  sound  and  our  citizens  continue  to  march,  and  we 
cannot  claim  to  be  ignorant  about  it.  We  have  a  duty 
to respond immediately to nature’s desperate cries for 
protection,  so  that  in  turn  it  can  protect  us.  There  is 
no  time  to  lose  and  no  reason  to  procrastinate  about 
this, because time is no longer our ally. It is our enemy. 
Our generation’s response to this great challenge will 
undoubtedly be judged by our children, grandchildren 
and  other  generations  to  come.  The  threat  of  climate 
change and the way we address it will define this and 
future centuries and requires a vast multilateral effort. 
We are aware that we are dealing with a truly serious, 
urgent and growing threat that we can no longer ignore, 
delay or downplay.
No  nation  is  immune  to  that  threat,  but  Chile 
is  especially  vulnerable.  My  country  is  a  veritable 
observatory and natural laboratory, as it contains very 
diverse land, maritime, coastal and glacial ecosystems, 
among many others, as well as unique island ecosystems 
that  are  home  to  more  than  30,000  species  of  plants, 
animals,  fungi  and  bacteria.  In  addition,  Chile  is 
geographically  unique  because  of  its  natural  barriers, 
the  Andes  range  to  the  east,  the  Pacific  Ocean  to  the 
west, the Atacama desert to the north and the Antarctic 
to the south, which means that we are home to species 
found nowhere else in the world. For example, almost 
90  per  cent  of  fish  species  —  the  highest  percentage 
in the world — on Robinson Crusoe Island in the Juan 
Fernández  archipelago  are  endemic;  in  other  words, 
they are unique to that environment.
However, that virtue is also our Achilles heel. Chile, 
as a natural observatory, is greatly exposed to the risks 
and  threats  of  climate  change  and  global  warming. 
In  fact,  seven  of  the  nine  major  vulnerability  factors 
listed in the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate  Change  apply  to  Chile  —  low-lying  coastal 
areas,  arid  and  semi-arid  areas,  large  forested  areas, 
areas prone to natural disasters, areas prone to drought 
and  desertification,  urban  areas  with  atmospheric 
pollution problems, and mountainous ecosystems.
That  compels  us  to  seek  urgent  and  effective 
solutions in order to adapt to and address the threat of 
global warming. As President of Chile, I am especially 
committed to sustainable development, in other words, 
environmentally  friendly  development  that  respects 
nature.  A  threat  that  was  once  remote  is  now  upon 
us,  and  we  are  currently  witnessing  the  lethal  impact 
of  those  changes  and  their  possible  future  impact  on 
present and future generations. There is no time to lose. 
We must take the bull by the horns and do whatever is 
necessary to change the course of history.
What has Chile done in that regard? First, we are 
committed  to  creating  protected  areas  that  preserve 
crucial biodiversity. Chile has been a regional and world 
leader in creating protected areas since the beginning 
of the last century, starting with the Malleco National 
Reserve. Today, there are 180 marine and land-protected 
areas in Chile covering more than 120 million hectares.
We  are  also  firmly  committed  to  conserving  our 
oceans,  their  biodiversity  and  the  sustainable  use  of 
their resources. We have already protected more than 
13  per  cent  of  our  exclusive  economic  zone,  which 
stretches along Chile’s approximately 4,200 kilometres 
of coastline. And we are on our way to achieving 40 per 
cent protection, with the largest marine protected area 
in  Latin  America,  one  of  the  largest  in  the  world,  on 
wondrous Easter Island, or Rapa Nui.
In addition, the energy path that we are following 
towards a cleaner, safer, more cost-effective and more 
diversified  energy  matrix 
that  strongly  promotes 
decarbonization  has  enabled  us  to  make  significant 
18-30067
19/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
headway 
in  developing  clean,  renewable  energy, 
particularly  volcanic  energy  —  Chile  has  25  per  cent 
of the world’s active volcanoes — as well as wind and 
solar energy, since Chile is home to a desert with the 
highest solar radiation levels in the world. We are also 
making great advances in removing fossil fuels from our 
transport system and moving towards electromobility, 
with a more definitive solution that is more compatible 
with those objectives.
Moreover, we are addressing the threat to our planet 
posed by plastic. We understand how important it is for 
all  Governments  to  act  in  time  to  prevent  12  billion 
tons — a figure we have almost reached — of plastic 
waste from ending up in natural environments, meaning 
that there would be more plastic bags than fish in our 
oceans. I am very happy that the first piece of legislation 
to  be  adopted  during  my  current  term  in  office  has 
banned the use of plastic bags in Chilean shops. Chile 
is the first country in Latin America to restrict the free 
distribution of any kind of single-use plastic bag. The 
fact  is  that  one  plastic  bag  takes  seconds  to  produce 
and is used, on average, for 15 minutes on the journey 
back from the supermarket, but then takes 400 years to 
biodegrade, which means that for a few minutes of use, 
nature and humankind must suffer the harmful effects 
of one plastic bag for more than 400 years.
Once  and  for  all,  we  must  address  many  of  those 
problems  with  a  new  attitude  and  abandon  the  idea 
that  the  goals  of  economic  growth  and  the  protection 
of the environment are incompatible. The fact is that if 
growth is unsustainable, it will simply cease to exist. 
We  must  also  abandon  our  throwaway  culture  and 
return to embracing one of recycling.
Pollution has struck very dramatically and close to 
home in my country, Chile. Over the past few weeks, 
the two communes of Puchuncaví and Quintero, which 
have  long  been  overpolluted,  experienced  serious 
episodes  of  environmental  pollution,  affecting  the 
health of many citizens. In view of the seriousness of 
the situation, I immediately visited the areas concerned 
to meet with the authorities and the communities and 
to see and experience, with my own eyes and senses, 
the  dramatic  effects  of  that  environmental  disaster. 
During my visit, I made a promise to Chilean citizens 
to  rewrite  the  future  for  those  two  communities  and 
many  others.  To  that  end,  we  are  implementing  a 
plan  to  resolve  the  emergency  situation  and  protect 
our  citizens’  health.  We  are  also  developing  a  long-
term solution to enable us to better protect the quality 
and  health  of  our  water,  air  and  soil  through  ongoing 
monitoring  with  the  highest  available  technological 
standards  and  the  implementation  of  extraordinary 
emission  standards  for  polluting  companies,  as  well 
as  a  comprehensive  pollution  plan  that  will  enable  us 
to  permanently  resolve  such  situations  and  achieve  a 
definitive  solution,  putting  an  end  to  the  so-called 
sacrificial zones in our country.
We know that nature is not a gift inherited from our 
parents, and that we therefore cannot use it as we like. 
Rather, it is a loan from our children, grandchildren and 
future generations. We must nurture it and return it to 
them in better condition. That challenge must involve 
all stakeholders in society. Channelling collective and 
multisectoral efforts requires the commitment of us all. 
That is the aim of the framework law on climate change 
that  we  are  implementing  in  Chile  and  that  by  2030  
will enable us to reduce our greenhouse-gas emissions 
by 30 per cent compared to the base year.
To  do  it,  we  must  incorporate  the  climate-change 
perspective  into  all  public  policy  and  private-sector 
commitments. We are doing just that by incorporating 
environmental  and  climate-change  policies  into  our 
national investment system and our evaluation systems 
for  public  expenditure  and  environmental  impact. 
In  addition,  we  are  including  those  concerns  and 
commitments  in  both  bilateral  and  multilateral  trade 
agreements, such as the Comprehensive and Progressive 
Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, which unites 
11 countries on both shores of the vast Pacific Ocean, 
as well as in the ways in which we are addressing the 
process of adding new members to the Pacific Alliance.
Without  doubt,  those  developments  have  reduced 
our carbon emissions and will continue to significantly 
reduce  them  while  strengthening  our  economy.  The 
challenge  is  extremely  demanding  and  requires  great 
determination  and  ambition.  In  that  regard,  we  have 
two important allies, the first of which is technology. 
Today,  the  scientific  imagination  and  innovation  and 
the  scientific  and  technological  advances  that  have 
emerged  from  the  freedom  and  creativity  of  free 
men  and  women  have  equipped  us  with  new  tools  to 
combat this relatively new and serious threat..We must 
therefore  continue  to  boost  and  foster  our  technology 
and scientific entrepreneurs so that they will join this 
fight and not repeat the errors of the past. In recent days 
we learned of an initiative that can clean the rubbish and 
plastic out of our oceans more efficiently. In our efforts 
20/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
to fulfil our commitments, those are the technologies 
that we are using in my country.
our country. We were able to restore our freedom and 
democracy in an admirable manner.
Moreover,  we  have  a  multilateral  system  that 
enables  us  to  act  in  a  coordinated  manner.  That  is 
precisely  the  point  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. However, we are aware that bureaucracy often 
slows down United Nations efforts. We must therefore 
improve  coordination  and  be  able  to  generate  more 
delivery and accountability, while also focusing more 
on the results and less on the process. As a great United 
States President once remarked, our generation is in a 
unique  twofold  situation.  We  are  the  first  generation 
to  feel  the  impact  of  climate  change  and  also  the  last 
generation that can do something about it.
I  shall  now  turn  to  human  rights  —  the  third 
challenge  raised  by  the  late  Kofi  Annan  20  years 
ago  in  this  Hall  —  and  the  challenge  of  freedom, 
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law.  Five  years  ago,  from 
this very rostrum (see A/68/PV.5), I was able to share 
the  lessons  and  teachings  of  Chileans  40  years  after 
the collapse of democracy in our country, and after its 
subsequent recovery. The lessons we have learned have 
specific relevance.
The first and most important lesson is that there are 
always moral and legal norms that should be respected 
by everyone: combatants and non-combatants, civilians 
and soldiers, leaders and subordinates, with the result 
that  atrocity  crimes  such  as  torture,  crimes  against 
humanity, terrorism, political assassination and forced 
disappearances  can  never  be  justified  in  any  context, 
time,  place  or  circumstance.  Freedom,  democracy, 
peace and civic friendship are much more fragile than 
we tend to think, which means that we must never take 
them for granted. They must always be valued, taught, 
fostered and protected, because they are like air. When 
we have it, we take it for granted, but when we do not, 
it is often too late to get it back.
In Chile we are now a few days away from marking 
30  years  since  the  referendum  of  5  October  1988 
that  paved  the  way  for  us  to  regain  our  freedom  and 
democracy.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
recall the two major transitions that our generation has 
had  to  face  in  Chile.  The  first  of  them  enabled  us  to 
regain our freedom and democracy, which we achieved 
in an intelligent and exemplary manner. Normally such 
transitions  take  place  amid  political  crisis,  economic 
chaos and social violence, none of which happened in 
However,  that  transition  is  now  history.  The  new 
transition,  our  transition,  that  is  currently  under  way 
and depends on us consists in transforming Chile, once 
the poorest of Spain’s Latin American colonies, into a 
developed  country,  without  poverty  and  with  greater 
social justice and equal opportunities, in which we can 
all develop our talents and life plans and live fuller and 
happier lives, by the end of the next decade. We must 
complete that transition with the same unity, generosity 
and intelligence with which we carried out the transition 
that allowed us to regain our democracy.
On  human  rights,  I  want  to  clearly  and  strongly 
state today that human rights, freedom and democracy 
know  no  borders.  I  would  therefore  like  to  bring  to 
the  General  Assembly  the  voice  of  the  Venezuelan 
people, which President Maduro’s regime has silenced. 
Venezuela is a sister nation that for many long decades 
was a democracy that brought great progress and well-
being to its people, generously opening its borders to 
many Latin Americans so that they could find shelter, 
work and opportunity there that were not available in 
their own countries.
Unfortunately,  today  Venezuela  is  governed  by 
a  regime  that  respects  none  of  its  principles,  neither 
freedom nor democracy nor human rights. It is a society 
that  is  being  torn  apart  by  a  moral,  political,  social 
and  humanitarian  crisis  —  a  moral  crisis,  because 
the  basic  values  of  human  rights  are  not  respected;  a 
political crisis, because there is no democracy, rule of 
law,  separation  of  powers  or  freedom  of  expression, 
and  there  are  hundreds  of  political  prisoners;  and  an 
economic  crisis,  because  Venezuela,  once  the  richest 
country  in  Latin  America,  now  has  less  than  half  the 
production capacity it had in its heyday.
Indeed,  Venezuela  is  undergoing  a  tragedy.  Its 
inhabitants  are  fleeing  from  a  dismal  and  perilous 
existence. Many, too many, are literally losing their lives 
for lack of food and medicine. President Maduro, while 
denying the situation, is not letting in the humanitarian 
aid that many countries are willing to deliver. In recent 
years,  more  than  2  million  Venezuelans  have  had 
to  leave  their  country  as  a  result  of  the  crisis  I  have 
just  outlined.  I  ask  myself  how  a  President  can  be  so 
ambitious  and  callous  that  he  is  willing  to  cause  his 
own people such pain and suffering in order to prevail 
and cling to power.
18-30067
21/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
However, Venezuela is not the only country in that 
situation.  The  same  is  happening  in  countries  such 
as  Nicaragua,  in  which  more  than  400  people  have 
already died as a result of the violence fostered by the 
State and President Ortega’s Government. In fact, the 
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, which 
has  reported  assassinations,  extrajudicial  executions, 
ill-treatment,  torture  and  arbitrary  detentions  in  that 
country,  was  expelled  from  Nicaragua  a  month  ago. 
There  are  also  similar  occurrences  in  Cuba,  where 
for  more  than  60  years  there  has  been  no  freedom, 
democracy  or  basic  respect  for  human  rights,  as 
evidenced  by  its  arbitrary  detentions  and,  as  in 
Venezuela and Nicaragua, its censorship of freedom of 
expression, which is guaranteed under article 19 of the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
Chile  does  not  recognize  the  legitimacy  of  the 
recent presidential elections in Venezuela, because they 
did not fulfil the basic requirements necessary for free, 
democratic  and  transparent  elections,  in  accordance 
with  international  standards.  We  will  therefore  not 
recognize the legitimacy of the new Government that 
emerged from the election. Chile will continue to do all 
it can, in accordance with international law, to help the 
Venezuelan people to regain their freedom, democracy 
and human rights and emerge from the sad and tragic 
disaster affecting the country.
that 
through 
the  Organization, 
For  that  to  happen,  we  need  the  support  of  the 
multilateral  system,  in  particular  the  United  Nations. 
We  believe 
the 
Security  Council,  should  address  the  democratic  and 
humanitarian  crises  affecting  those  countries.  As  I 
have said before, in modern times, freedom, democracy 
and  respect  for  human  rights  do  not  and  should  not 
recognize  borders.  Chile  will  therefore  use  all  the 
mechanisms available under international law and work 
with all its strength and commitment to restore freedom, 
democracy and human rights in those countries.
I would like to end my statement with a reflection 
on  the  current  state  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
reforms  and  updates  that  many  countries  think  the 
United  Nations  now  urgently  requires.  The  United 
Nations, which has contributed to the maintenance of 
international peace and security on countless occasions 
as the cornerstone of multilateralism, today has highly 
restricted and limited powers. We have lost the ability 
to  prevent  crises  and  to  strengthen  the  institutions  of 
Member States with the aim of generating a true culture 
of  democratic  resilience  that  is  capable  of  surviving 
breakdowns, like those suffered in some countries in our 
region. We therefore believe that the time has come for 
the United Nations to modernize, as has been suggested 
by many Member States on various occasions, in order 
to be able to act more quickly and effectively in the face 
of the challenges of the modern age.
The structure of the United Nations, and especially 
its  Security  Council,  is  a  legacy  of  the  victors  in  the 
Second  World  War,  which  ended  more  than  70  years 
ago, and it does not meet the needs and challenges of 
current times. In fact, we all know that some permanent 
members of the Security Council exercise or threaten to 
use their right to veto for reasons that are based more on 
their own interests or those of their allies than on their 
duty to preserve peace and security in every corner of 
our planet.
That  behaviour  has  reduced  and  continues  to 
reduce the effectiveness of a fundamental organ of the 
United Nations that not only holds enormous power but 
also has a tremendous responsibility, that of preserving 
peace  and  security  on  our  planet.  In  addition,  the 
current  composition  of  the  Security  Council  does  not 
reflect today’s world and does not adequately represent 
entire continents, such as Africa or Latin America, or 
countries such as Germany, India and Japan.
I would therefore like to conclude by emphasizing 
that it is not only development that should be sustainable, 
but  also  peace.  It  is  precisely  at  times  like  these  that 
the  values  we  share  as  an  international  community 
should  guide  and  illuminate  our  actions  and  the  path 
ahead. People must not be united by free trade alone. 
What should guide us is the maintenance of peace and 
security and respect for the basic values that led to the 
formation of the Organization, and it is therefore those 
same values that must illuminate and guide the path to 
its future.
Only  by  strongly  and  coherently  reviving  those 
values  will  the  United  Nations  be  able  to  fulfil  its 
responsibilities  and  rise  to  the  challenges  of  the  new 
world we live in. Together with the formidable threats 
that we are confronted with, such as terrorism, global 
warming and mass migration, we also have magnificent 
opportunities  that  are  generated  by  the  freedom, 
imagination  and  unlimited  creativity  of  the  free  men 
and women of this world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
22/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
President of the Republic of Chile for the statement he 
has just made.
rights, the equality of all nations, social progress and 
better living standards.
Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echenique, President of the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Julius Maada Bio, President of the 
Republic of Sierra Leone
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Mr.  Julius  Maada  Bio,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Julius Maada 
Bio, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Bio:  It  is  a  distinct  honour  for  me  to 
address the General Assembly for the very first time as 
President of the Republic of Sierra Leone.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Sierra  Leone,  I  would  like  to  express  our  heartfelt 
condolences to the Government and the people of the 
Republic  of  Ghana  and  to  the  United  Nations  family 
on the passing of Kofi Atta Annan, former Secretary-
General of the United Nations. He served humankind 
and  the  world  with  distinction,  and  in  our  country’s 
hour of need he helped to steer it out of a deep abyss 
of  seemingly  intractable  war.  May  he  rest  in  perfect 
peace. He always showed us what was possible and the 
best in humankind.
Our  commitment  to  building  a  peaceful  and 
more  secure  world,  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, as well as our commitment to the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
and  the  ongoing  reform  processes  of  the  United 
Nations,  perfectly  resonates  with  the  theme  for  this 
session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people:  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”. 
The  work  of  the  United  Nations  should  continue  to 
be  guided  by  the  values  on  which  it  was  founded, 
including  the  promotion  of  peace,  security,  human 
In April Sierra Leoneans registered their commitment 
to  democratic  governance  with  yet  another  peaceful 
transfer  of  power  from  a  political  incumbent  to  the 
opposition.  We  acknowledge  with  humility  the  many 
messages  of  commendation  from  various  parts  of 
the  world  for  our  conduct  of  peaceful  and  credible 
presidential, parliamentary and local council elections, 
which led to my election as President of the Republic of 
Sierra Leone.
On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Sierra  Leone,  let  me 
say  that  we  sincerely  appreciate  the  international 
community’s invaluable contributions to facilitating and 
monitoring our electoral process. We acknowledge the 
role played by the United Nations and our development 
partners  in  supporting  the  successful  conduct  of 
the  elections.  We  are  a  successful  model  of  a  stable 
democracy, one that has evolved and matured over 20 
years from the chaos and lawlessness of civil conflict.
However,  stable  democracies  must  also  be 
sustainable.  Sierra  Leoneans  voted  for  a  change  of 
Government  and  for  a  new  direction  and  the  right 
direction.  My  Government  is  ready  to  maximize 
our  country’s  potential  for  development,  because  we 
believe that development sustains emerging, successful 
and  stable  democracies  like  ours.  The  international 
community  has  invested  hugely  in  facilitating  and 
stabilizing  Sierra  Leone’s  democracy,  and  it  must 
continue  to  play  its  role  in  sustaining  Sierra  Leone’s 
democracy, in collaboration with the Government and 
the people of Sierra Leone.
and 
and 
the  prudent 
In  addition  to  our  firm  commitment  to  good 
governance 
accountable 
management  of  our  nation’s  resources,  we  are  ready 
to foster a congenial environment that is conducive to 
credible  gross  domestic  product  growth.  We  call  on 
our bilateral partners to help us deliver on our people’s 
expectations through the provision of development funds 
and technical assistance and the cultivation of valuable 
trade  links.  We  cordially  invite  all  credible  investors 
to  an  open  and  congenial  investment  environment, 
in  which  all  their  investments  are  guaranteed  and 
protected  by  our  relevant  laws.  We  have  worked 
assiduously to remove barriers to investment, and I ask 
all such investors to help us sustain our democracy.
The  Assembly  made  a  historic  pledge  during  the 
2005 World Summit to strengthen the United Nations 
18-30067
23/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
with a view to enhancing its authority and effectiveness, 
as  well  as  its  capacity  to  address  effectively,  and  in 
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter,  the  full  range  of  the  challenges  of  our  time. 
A  number  of  gains  have  been  made,  including  the 
establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission and the 
Human Rights Council and the adoption of resolutions 
on  the  responsibility  to  protect.  Those  are  laudable 
gains,  but  the  need  for  reform  is  also  urgent  and 
imperative. We should now endeavour to demonstrate 
the  political  will  to  redress  specifically  the  historical 
injustice done to the African continent.
The present geopolitical realities compel us to work 
to  comprehensively  reform  the  Security  Council  in 
order to ensure equitable representation in every organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  Africa  is  the  only  continent 
without  representation  in  the  permanent  category  of 
the  Security  Council,  and  is  also  underrepresented  in 
the non-permanent category. Africa’s demand for two 
permanent  seats  with  all  the  rights  and  prerogatives 
of  current  members,  including  the  right  of  veto,  and 
for  two  additional  non-permanent  seats,  is  a  matter 
of common justice and the right to have an equal say 
in  decision-making  on  issues  that  affect  the  African 
region.  It  is  time  that  we  addressed  without  further 
delay the long-standing injustice and imbalance that is 
being  perpetuated  in  the  present  configuration  of  the 
Security Council.
Africa is committed to the ongoing reforms that will 
make the United Nations fit for purpose in the twenty-
first century. As the Coordinator of the African Union 
Committee  of  Ten  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
on  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  we  reiterate 
our  concern  about  this  body’s  continued  inaction  on 
adopting  measures  that  will  enable  Africa  to  take  its 
rightful place in the Council. Unless and until we are 
able to contend with the reform of the Security Council, 
the most critical question of the day, the Organization 
will remain seemingly constituted on undemocratic and 
discriminatory principles.
I  want  to  emphasize  the  urgent  importance  of 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  by 
pointing  out  that  1.2  billion  of  the  world’s  7.5  billion 
people  are  African.  Those  1.2  billion  continue  to 
contribute their fair share to maintaining world peace 
and security. About 70 per cent of the decisions taken in 
the Security Council ultimately affect those 1.2 billion 
Africans. Those 1.2 billion people, who are affected by 
more than 70 per cent of United Nations resolutions, are 
therefore asking why they should be excluded from the 
Security Council, where they simply want their voices 
to be fully represented.
My Government’s blueprint document for moving 
our  country  forward,  entitled  “The  New  Direction”, 
focuses  on  taking  Sierra  Leone  beyond  the  phase  of 
peacebuilding and consolidation to firmly establishing 
a  stable,  peaceful,  open  and  pluralistic  democracy 
that  is  a  responsible  and  committed  member  of  the 
international  community  of  nations.  At  the  domestic 
level,  my  Government  has  established  priority  areas, 
including  job  creation,  access  to  quality  education, 
youth  empowerment,  the  empowerment  of  women 
and  the  disabled,  combating  graft  and  corruption  and 
fostering a culture of accountability and transparency, 
ensuring 
efficient  public-service 
delivery  and  strengthening  civic  responsibility  and 
national cohesion.
effective 
and 
Guided  by  both  our  specific  situation  and 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  our 
Government’s  initiative  and  policy  actions  involve 
strengthening our democratic institutions, opening up 
democratic spaces, promoting democratic dialogue and 
creating a more just and equal society. We see those as 
precursors  to  the  sustainable  growth  of  our  economy 
and our development as a nation.
Among  other  things,  my  Government’s  economic 
and  development  policies,  as  I  stated  earlier,  create 
a  congenial  environment  for  credible  private-sector 
investment and entrepreneurship. We are eager to work 
with  and  listen  to  the  private  sector.  Our  policies  are 
enabling, and our investment framework is attractive. 
We can ensure the full legal protection of all investments, 
and  we  can  ensure  predictable  and  profitable  revenue 
streams and returns on investments.
is  starting 
Sierra  Leone 
to  adopt  renewable 
energy.  We  now  need  public  and  private  investment 
for commercial and industrial uses, such as powering 
hotels, agriculture and small-scale manufacturing. My 
country  is  endowed  with  sufficient  renewable  energy 
resources  in  solar  irradiation,  coastal  and  offshore 
wind and mini-hydro and bioenergy. My Government’s 
target of 60 per cent renewable energy capacity by 2030 
is practicable, especially in terms of generating growth 
in rural areas.
Sierra Leone, like most developing countries, has 
been  on  the  expensive  and  dirty  liquid-fuel  treadmill 
since  its  independence.  My  Government  is  seeking 
24/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
international technical assistance and capacity-building 
for  migrating  a  percentage  of  the  country’s  power 
generation away from heavy liquid fuel to natural gas 
that is trucked to site. In that regard, my Government 
is  seeking  collaboration  with  local  companies  and 
engineering companies from around the world.
We  believe  that  investment  in  renewable  energy 
sources  and  liquefied  natural  gas  will  help  us  to 
meet  SDG  7  by  modernizing  our  energy-generation 
systems, which will have a multiplier effect by helping 
our country to meet the SDGs for poverty alleviation 
through  job  creation  and  increased  investments  in 
health,  water  delivery  and  cities.  We  are  determined 
to make Sierra Leone the renewable energy hub of the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  region. 
Our  vision  is  positive  for  our  world’s  climate,  for 
foreign  and  local  investors  and  development  and  for 
our country.
My  Government  has  a  bold  vision  for  science, 
technology  and  innovation.  In  that  regard,  I  have 
established the first directorate of science, technology 
and innovation. We have set an ambitious and achievable 
target  for  2025  of  developing  solid  information  and 
communication  technologies  infrastructure  that  will 
support  graft-free  governance  and  the  delivery  of 
effective, reliable, responsive and transparent services, 
ranging  from  banking  and  business  to  education, 
agricultural extension, revenue collection, health-care 
delivery, access to justice, governance, tourism, trade 
and the rule of law.
We  have  undertaken  extensive  reforms,  in  line 
with the SDG 16+ Forum, to create a peaceful, just and 
inclusive  Sierra  Leone  with  resilient  institutions.  We 
are  engaged  in  judiciary  and  criminal  justice  reform 
and,  in  collaboration  with  civil-society  and  partner 
organizations,  we  continue  to  build  on  gains  in  the 
delivery of justice that take into account disparities in 
access to justice.
We have launched a focused and sustained campaign 
against graft, waste and the misuse of public funds. Our 
revenue  authority  has  streamlined  revenue  collection 
and reduced tax evasion and theft. We have launched a 
free quality education programme that provides access 
to basic and secondary education for girls and boys of 
school age.
We  are  building,  retooling  and  opening  up  our 
governance, health-care, financial and other institutions 
so  as  to  empower  our  women  and  young  people,  the 
aged and our elderly and disabled compatriots. We are 
also reviewing discriminatory laws and practices, and 
will engage communities in order to change traditional 
structures 
that  have  excluded  such  persons.  In 
particular, our young people, like their counterparts all 
over the world, are energized and eager to make Sierra 
Leone  a  better  place.  Our  development  policies  and 
priorities harness their vibrancy and direct it towards 
targeted education and skills training, entrepreneurship 
and strong civic participation.
We  are  working  on  a  comprehensive  biometric 
identification  system,  so  that  all  citizens  can  fully 
participate in the economic and civic life of our nation. 
In particular, we acknowledge the support of the United 
Nations Development Programme, Kiva and the United 
Nations  Capital  Development  Fund  in  strengthening 
our  national  digital  identification  system.  With  their 
assistance  we  are  modernizing  our  credit  reference 
bureau,  which  will  radically  transform  our  financial 
inclusion landscape and the ease of doing business in 
our country.
We  are  fully  committed  to  promoting  a  free 
press,  rescinding  adversarial  public-order  laws  and 
protecting and promoting the right of citizens to know 
and access information. We have instituted a national 
civic-education  commission  to  further  ensure  the 
unrestricted  participation  of  every  Sierra  Leonean  in 
our stable democracy. For all of these efforts, we need 
a constructive yet intensive and sustained engagement 
with our bilateral partners and partner institutions.
is  committed 
to 
My  Government 
increasing 
equitable  access  to  quality  health  care  for  Sierra 
Leoneans. We call on our bilateral partner organizations 
and private investors to help us invest in and develop 
our critical institutional, technical and human-resource 
capacity, as well as the infrastructure needed to ensure 
the delivery of quality health care for Sierra Leoneans.
We recall with great appreciation the magnanimity 
of the world as we dealt with recent deadly epidemics 
such  as  the  Ebola  virus  disease,  and  the  sustained 
interventions  of  our  partners  in  helping  us  to  battle 
tropical  diseases, 
including  malaria,  cholera  and 
typhoid.  We  need  more  help  in  all  those  areas  and  in 
expanding and maintaining all immunization levels at 
100 per cent. My Government has increased health-care 
investment, but that will not be enough. We call on the 
international  community  to  enhance  our  institutional 
and technical capacity for preventive health care and for 
18-30067
25/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
managing  public  health  and  environmental  sanitation 
issues,  including  waste  management  and  storm-drain 
water management in urban areas.
Sierra Leone welcomes the renewed commitment of 
the United Nations to conflict prevention, as embodied 
in  its  Charter.  The  world  needs  a  stronger  United 
Nations  more  than  ever  before,  as  well  as  consistent 
and effective multilateralism that collectively evaluates 
and  cooperatively  resolves  humankind’s  common 
challenges, from trade to climate change and from world 
security  to  our  common  humanity  and  our  collective 
social  and  economic  well-being.  Our  foreign  policy 
should be driven by the golden rules of impartiality and 
cooperation. That is the only way that humankind can 
respond  effectively,  without  hesitation,  to  the  global 
challenges that we all face today.
We  acknowledge  the  continued  relevance  of  the 
United  Nations  Programme  of  Action  to  Prevent, 
Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small 
Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects  and  the 
International  Instrument  to  Enable  States  to  Identify 
and  Trace,  in  a  Timely  and  Reliable  Manner,  Illicit 
Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons,  which  constitute 
the  global  framework  for  preventing,  combating  and 
eradicating  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons in all its aspects. We welcome the Secretary-
General’s reform agenda on sustaining peace, including 
the efforts to reform peacekeeping, which is one of the 
most effective tools available to the United Nations for 
peace and security.
My  Government  will  bolster  Sierra  Leone’s 
participation  in  the  promotion  and  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  as  a  troop-  and 
police-contributing country, and in supporting United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  especially  with  the 
deployment  of  formed  units  or  contingents  of  both 
military  and  police.  Sierra  Leone  stands  ready  to 
continue contributing to world peace and security.
With  a  strong  belief  in  a  shared  vision  and  a 
common  destiny,  Sierra  Leone  stands  with  the  world 
in  meeting  global  challenges.  Sierra  Leoneans  also 
look to the world for the help it can offer in helping to 
consolidate Sierra Leone as an economically developed, 
open, inclusive and pluralistic democracy. As we often 
say, we are a country with a faith that wisdom inspires 
and one with a zeal that never tires. We are optimistic, 
because our country stands ready, on the threshold of a 
new direction.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Sierra Leone for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Julius  Maada  Bio,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the 
State of Palestine
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the State of Palestine.
into 
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State 
of  Palestine,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Abbas, President of the State of Palestine, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Abbas (spoke in Arabic): Jerusalem is not 
for sale and the rights of the Palestinian people are not 
for  bargaining.  Peace  be  upon  the  General  Assembly. 
We will keep our faith in peace, we will maintain peace, 
and we will achieve our independent State with peace, 
because  God  is  with  us,  our  cause  is  just,  our  people 
have  sacrificed  a  great  deal  and  Assembly  members 
are supporters of peace. God Almighty is against those 
who  are  unjust.  Allah  will  suffice  me,  and  He  is  the 
best guardian.
During  last  year’s  general  debate,  I  came  before 
the  Assembly  (see  A/72/PV.8)  appealing  for  freedom, 
independence  and  justice  for  my  oppressed  people, 
who  have  been  suffering  under  the  yoke  of  Israeli 
occupation for 51 years. I return to the Assembly today, 
as  that  colonial  occupation  continues  to  suffocate 
us,  undermining  our  unwavering  efforts  to  build  the 
institutions of our cherished State, which the General 
Assembly recognized in the year 2011.
This  year 
legitimate 
the  Palestinian  National  Council, 
which  is  the  Parliament  of  Palestine,  convened  and 
renewed  the  legitimacy  of  our  national  institutions 
through  the  election  of  a  new  leadership  for  the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO),  the  sole 
and 
the  Palestinian 
people.  The  Parliament  took  important  decisions  that 
representative  of 
26/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
committed me to reconsidering the political, economic 
and  security  agreements  that  have  been  reached  with 
the  Israeli  Government,  and  to  reviewing  the  future 
of  the  Palestinian  National  Authority,  which  has, 
unfortunately,  been  rendered  powerless.  In  addition, 
the  Parliament  asked  me  to  suspend  the  Palestinian 
recognition  of  the  State  of  Israel  until  Israel  in  turn 
recognizes  the  State  of  Palestine  based  on  the  4  June 
1967  borders.  Moreover,  it  requested  that  I  approach 
international  courts, 
International 
Criminal  Court,  to  have  them  investigate  the  Israeli 
Government’s  breaches  of  the  treaties  it  has  signed, 
and investigate the aggressions of the Israeli army and 
the terrorist practices of settlers against our people, our 
land  and  our  holy  sites.  The  Assembly  will  note  that 
every  single  day,  Israeli  settlers,  and  even  the  Israeli 
army, desecrate our holy sites, in particular the Al-Aqsa 
Mosque and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
including 
the 
Last July, Israel adopted a racist law that crossed 
every red line. It is called the Jewish nation-State law. It 
denies the connection of the Palestinian people to their 
historic  homeland  and  dismisses  their  right  to  self-
determination,  their  history  and  the  United  Nations 
resolutions relevant to the Palestinian question. It also 
denies  the  agreements  concluded  with  Israel,  which 
will  inevitably  lead  to  the  creation  of  a  single  racist, 
apartheid State, thereby nullifying the possibility of a 
two-State solution. Israel practices racism but has now 
crowned its practice with that new law.
Mr. Bessho (Japan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  new  law  also  discriminates  against  Arab 
citizens of Israel, granting the right to self-determination 
in  the  State  of  Israel  exclusively  to  Jews  and  thereby 
legalizing  discrimination  against  the  Arab  citizens, 
who make up 20 per cent of the population of Israel. In 
addition, the law discriminates against other non-Jews 
who have immigrated into Israel, stripping them of their 
citizenship rights. At least 5 per cent of Israel’s current 
population are non-Jews, mostly Christian and Muslim 
immigrants, many of whom emigrated from the former 
Soviet Union. Those people have also been stripped of 
their rights to citizenship.
The new law constitutes a gross political and legal 
violation,  as  well  as  a  real  threat  that  reminds  us  of 
the  apartheid  State  that  existed  in  South  Africa.  We 
therefore  strongly  reject  and  condemn  it.  We  further 
call on the international community and the Assembly 
to take action to reject and condemn it as a racist and 
illegal law that is null and void, as the United Nations 
did  when  it  condemned  the  former  apartheid  State  of 
South  Africa  in  several  resolutions,  bearing  in  mind 
that  thousands  of  Jews  and  Israeli  citizens  have  also 
rejected  the  new  law  and  demonstrated  against  it. 
Fifty-six  of  the  Knesset’s  120  members  have  rejected 
it, because they deem it a law of racial discrimination. 
I therefore call on the United Nations to follow in the 
footsteps of those Israeli citizens who have rejected it.
That  racist  law  talks  about  the  so-called  land 
of  Israel.  Could  Assembly  members  ask  the  Israeli 
Government  what  exactly  the  land  of  Israel  is?  What 
are the borders of the State of Israel? I challenge anyone 
to give me an answer and bring me a map that shows 
Israel’s  borders.  That  racist  law  constitutes  another 
stigma for the State of Israel and for anyone who keeps 
silent about it, as well as about other Israeli laws that 
legitimize  piracy,  the  confiscation  of  land  and  the 
seizure of the funds of the Palestinian people.
We have always engaged positively with the various 
initiatives of the international community that seek to 
achieve  peace  between  us  and  the  Israelis,  including 
the Arab Peace Initiative, which was recognized by the 
Security Council in resolution 1515 (2003).
We have also been dealing with the Administration 
of President Trump from the beginning of his tenure in 
the same positive spirit, and we welcomed his promise 
to  launch  a  peace  initiative.  I  have  met  with  him  on 
numerous  occasions.  While  we  eagerly  awaited  his 
peace initiative, we were shocked by the decisions and 
actions he took that completely contradict the role and 
commitment of his Administration to the peace process. 
In November 2017, his Administration made a decision 
to  close  the  PLO  office  in  Washington,  D.C.  He  then 
announced his recognition of Jerusalem as the capital 
of  Israel  and  moved  his  country’s  Embassy  from  Tel 
Aviv to Jerusalem. He even boasts that he has taken the 
issues of Jerusalem, refugees, settlements and security 
off the negotiating table.
All such decisions threaten the Palestinian national 
cause  and  constitute  a  violation  of  international  law 
and  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions.  The 
United  States  Administration  went  even  further  in 
its  aggression  by  cutting  assistance  to  the  Palestinian 
National  Authority,  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
(UNRWA)  and  Palestinian  hospitals  in  occupied  East 
18-30067
27/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
Jerusalem. Then they talk about humanitarian aid, and 
even that they have already stopped.
United  States.  However,  the  United  States  Congress 
calls us terrorists.
With all of those decisions, the Administration has 
reneged  on  previous  United  States  commitments  and 
undermined  the  possibility  of  a  two-State  solution, 
while revealing the falsity of its claims of concern about 
the humanitarian conditions of the Palestinian people. 
It is very ironic that the United States Administration 
still talks about what it calls the “deal of the century”. 
What  is  there  left  for  the  Administration  to  offer  the 
Palestinian  people?  Humanitarian  solutions  alone?  If 
it has removed Jerusalem, refugees, security and other 
issues  from  the  negotiation  table,  what  is  left  for  a 
political solution in the Middle East?
The United States Congress continues to insist on 
viewing the PLO as a terrorist organization, although it 
is recognized as the sole and legitimate representative 
of the Palestinian people by the overwhelming majority 
of countries of the world, including Israel. However, the 
United States Congress continues to claim that the PLO 
is a terrorist organization, even though it is recognized 
by  Israel,  while  the  State  of  Palestine  is  cooperating 
with a majority of countries of the world, including the 
United States, to combat terrorism. Why is there then 
such  animosity  towards  the  Palestinian  people,  who 
are  suffering  under  the  yoke  of  an  occupation  that  is 
supported by the United States?
to 
For  years,  we  have  affirmed 
We would like to tell that Administration that our 
position is firm and clear for all to see. We challenge 
them to find a single mistake that we have made during 
our long journey. However, the United States Congress 
says that the PLO is a terrorist organization. Why? I do 
not know. The Congress has decided and we must listen.
the  United 
States  Administration  our  willingness  to  establish 
a  Palestinian-American  committee  to  examine  the 
political  and  legal  status  of  the  PLO,  as  a  means  of 
demonstrating  to  the  Administration  that  the  PLO 
is  committed  to  achieving  peace  and  combating 
terrorism,  as  well  as  showing  that  the  decision  of  the 
Congress regarding the PLO is arbitrary, unlawful and 
unjustified,  while  the  Congress  deliberately  ignores 
the official agreement between the PLO and the United 
States  Administration  on  combating  terrorism,  an 
agreement  that  we  have  also  concluded  with  83  other 
countries. We have protocols with 83 countries under 
the  heading  of  combating  terrorism,  including  the 
Despite all of that, I renew from this rostrum my call 
to President Trump to rescind his decisions and decrees 
regarding  Jerusalem,  refugees  and  settlements,  which 
contravene  international  law  and  the  relevant  United 
Nations  resolutions,  as  well  as  the  understandings 
that  we  have  reached  aimed  at  salvaging  the  peace 
process and achieving security and stability for future 
generations.  Incidentally,  here  is  an  example  of  those 
understandings. There is a letter signed by the United 
States Administration and ourselves concerning many 
issues, but the Administration now ignores all of them.
Consistent  with  our  commitment  to  peace  and  a 
two-State solution, and the negotiations that we never 
rejected  leading  to  their  achievement,  I  challenge 
anyone  to  cite  a  single  instance  in  which  we  refused 
to  come  to  the  negotiation  table.  On  the  contrary,  we 
have been invited more than once by several countries 
in  this  very  Hall  to  sit  down  with  the  Israelis  and 
with  Mr.  Netanyahu.  Every  single  time,  I  accepted. 
I  challenge  anyone  to  tell  me  that  I  ever  refused  or 
that  he  accepted  even  once.  We  have  never  refused 
those  negotiations,  because  we  want  to  rescue  the 
peace process. I appeared before the Security Council 
on  20  February  of  this  year  (see  S/PV.8183)  and 
presented an initiative calling for the convening of an 
international  peace  conference  based  on  the  relevant 
United Nations resolutions and internationally endorsed 
terms  of  reference.  Such  a  conference  should  involve 
broad international participation, including of regional 
and  international  stakeholders,  led  by  the  permanent 
members of the Security Council and the Quartet. We 
will  circulate  to  Members  a  document  laying  out  the 
initiative in its entirety and hope that the Assembly will 
adopt it.
In  that  regard,  I  reiterate  that  we  are  not  at  all 
against negotiations, and we have never once rejected 
them. We will continue to extend our hand to achieve 
peace. We believe in peace as the only path to reach our 
cause, as I said at the beginning of my statement. We 
do  not  believe  in  violence  and  terrorism.  We  miss  no 
opportunity to reiterate that fact. What is required of us? 
Negotiations  on  the  basis  of  international  legitimacy? 
None of the international legitimacy resolutions since 
1947 has been respected up to now, so what solutions 
are we talking about?
28/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Peace in our region cannot be realized without an 
independent  Palestinian  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital including all the holy sites. Some people try 
to outsmart us by asserting that our capital is in Abu 
Deis  and  other  places  surrounding  Jerusalem.  That 
is  a  manipulation  of  words.  No.  Our  capital  is  East 
Jerusalem, not “in East Jerusalem”. I would ask others 
not to try to outsmart us by saying “Abu Deis” or “in 
East  Jerusalem”  so  that  they  can  pick  and  choose  an 
area here or there. No, it is East Jerusalem, which has 
been occupied since 1967, that is our capital.
Peace is not possible otherwise, because there can be 
no peace in a State of temporary and unknown borders, 
like the State of Israel with its unknown borders. They 
invented  the  idea  of  a  State  with  temporary  borders 
and said: “We will give you a State but with unknown 
borders”. Subsequently, they said, “Let us talk”. No, we 
unconditionally  want  a  State  with  very  well-defined 
borders  and  rights.  Only  then  can  we  coexist  with 
the Israelis.
There  are  138  States  in  the  Assembly  that  have 
recognized  the  State  of  Palestine,  recently  joined 
by  Colombia.  That  makes  139.  I  therefore  call  on 
the  countries  of  the  world  that  have  yet  to  recognize 
the  State  of  Palestine  to  make  that  long-overdue 
recognition  happen.  I  can  no  longer  see  a  convincing 
reason justifying the continued delay in the recognition 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  by  certain  countries.  In  that 
regard, I want to draw the Assembly’s attention to the 
fact  that  in  2019  the  State  of  Palestine  will  chair  the 
Group  of  77  and  China.  Ten  minutes  ago,  I  met  His 
Excellency President Al Sisi of Egypt in a conference 
room,  and  he  announced  that  we  have  been  freely 
elected by 134 countries to chair the Group of 77 and 
China.  Nevertheless,  there  are  certain  countries  that 
say, “We recognize both countries”. If so, why do they 
not recognize Palestine? That is entirely unacceptable. 
We tell those countries that if they recognize us, it does 
not mean that we will not pursue negotiations. On the 
contrary,  that  will  bolster  our  international  standing, 
and,  together  with  their  support,  we  will  be  able  to 
participate in negotiations assisted by their recognition 
of the State of Palestine. That recognition should not be 
unilateral  in  the  sense  of  recognizing  one  State  only, 
while  refusing  to  recognize  the  other.  They  have  to 
recognize both States.
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  once  again 
that  Israel  has  not  implemented  a  single  one  of  the 
hundreds of General Assembly resolutions on this topic. 
The General Assembly has adopted 705 resolutions on 
the problem since 1947. And the Security Council has 
adopted 86 resolutions since 1948. Not a single resolution 
has been implemented by Israel. Unfortunately, I have 
to  say  frankly  that  Israel  is  supported  in  that  by  the 
United  States.  The  General  Assembly  gave  us  139 
votes in favour, while 42 States abstained. Only eight 
countries voted against. For how long will Israel be an 
outlaw, do whatever it wishes and act as a rebel backed 
by whomever it wants?
We are resisting the Israeli occupation by legitimate 
means that have been recognized by the United Nations 
and  include  primarily  peaceful  popular  resistance. 
We  will  use  no  other  means,  only  peaceful  popular 
resistance.  Is  that  illegal?  By  contrast,  Israeli  settlers 
are using weapons against the Palestinian people. They 
destroy cities, towns and villages with their weapons. 
I  am  not  talking  about  the  army  and  the  police.  I  am 
talking  about  the  Israeli  settlers.  We  reject  and  will 
continue to reject violence and the use of force. We will 
reject every type of weapon and will not accept the use 
of arms anywhere. We call on the world to pursue efforts 
to achieve disarmament, including of both nuclear and 
traditional weapons.
We  currently  face  a  problem  in  Khan  Al-Ahmar, 
where Israel is insistent on destroying a village that has 
been populated by Palestinians for more than 50 years. 
If  Israel  destroys  that  village,  it  will  be  destroying 
the  unity  of  the  West  Bank,  which  will  consequently 
be  divided  into  north  and  south.  That  is  what  Israel 
wants to do. Does the Assembly agree with that? There 
is  also  the  continued  aggression  against  the  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque.  Does  the  Assembly  remember  the  previous 
attacks  on  Al-Aqsa,  which  were  stopped  by  peaceful 
popular  resistance?  We  are  now  being  told  that  the 
Israeli Supreme Court will approve a decision to divide 
Al-Aqsa  by  time  and  space.  We  will  definitely  not 
accept  that,  and  I  am  sure  that  people  with  courage, 
dignity and a desire for peace will not accept it either. 
Israel should bear the brunt. Its senseless thuggery must 
come to an end. Every day there is a new decision taken 
as though we do not exist.
A  United  Nations  resolution  (resolution  ES-
10/20)  was  successfully  adopted  for  our  international 
protection,  because  every  day  we  are  being  attacked, 
and  we  are  not  capable  of  protecting  ourselves.  That 
resolution  was  adopted,  but  who  will  implement 
it?  In  all  honesty,  it  is  not  sufficient  for  the  General 
Assembly to adopt a resolution without implementing 
18-30067
29/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
it  just  like  other  resolutions.  The  General  Assembly 
must  respect  its  own  resolutions.  We  applauded  that 
resolution, but it is not being implemented. Please, tell 
us  how  we  can  implement  that  resolution.  That  is  the 
Assembly’s responsibility.
While we welcome the economic and humanitarian 
support being provided through legitimate international 
institutions to our people in the West Bank and Gaza 
Strip,  we  reject  the  notion  that  such  support  can  be 
considered  a  substitute  for  a  political  settlement.  Our 
cause  has  many  humanitarian  aspects,  but  with  a 
political  settlement,  that  humanitarian  aid  would  not 
be  needed.  Do  not  try  to  fool  us  by  saying  that  the 
Assembly is helping us.
We want the right to the self-determination of our 
people,  no  more,  no  less.  Any  people,  large  or  small, 
should enjoy the right to self-determination. There are 
13 million Palestinians around the world. Why are we 
being denied the right to self-determination? It would 
harm  no  one.  We  want  to  establish  an  independent 
State that will live alongside the State of Israel. What is 
wrong with that? What crime we would be committing?
We  are  facing  another  problem.  We  continue 
to  make  genuine  and  serious  efforts  to  put  an  end  to 
the  current  division  in  our  governance  and  achieve 
reconciliation  despite  the  many  obstacles  preventing 
us  from  attaining  those  aims.  To  this  day,  we  still 
uphold  our  responsibilities  towards  our  people  in  the 
Gaza Strip.
We express our appreciation to our Arab brethren, 
particularly  our  brother  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt,  for 
their efforts to end the division, hoping that those efforts 
will be successful. We entered into an agreement, with 
Egypt as a sponsor, on 12 October 2017. The agreement 
is very simple. The Palestinian Government will carry 
out  its  responsibilities,  both  in  Gaza  and  in  the  West 
Bank, and then we will establish our State on a basis of 
unified law, authority, regime and legitimate arms. We 
reject the notion of militias. However, that agreement 
has not been accepted by the other party. Perhaps, over 
the coming days, we will witness a final round of talks 
before taking the next steps. I would like to sum up by 
saying the following.
First,  the  Palestinian  population  numbers  about 
13  million  human  beings,  even  if  not  everyone  views 
them as human beings. We are not superfluous people. 
A population is never superfluous, regardless of its size. 
Why  are  we  treated  as  a  superfluous  people  that  the 
world  should  get  rid  of?  That  is  totally  unacceptable. 
Yet  we  are  patient  and  steadfast,  and  we  believe  in 
peace and in peaceful means. We want to be viewed as 
humans. We are not superfluous.
Secondly,  we  have  entered  into  agreements  with 
the United States Administration, which has, however, 
reneged  on  all  those  agreements.  We  are  committed 
to and will abide by our part of the agreements, but if 
the United States Administration fails to honour them, 
then we will not abide by them either. So an agreement 
should be respected by all parties to it. I respect those 
agreements fully, but if the other side does not respect 
them, I will not respect them or be committed to them 
either. The United States wishes to act as a mediator, 
and  yet  we  see  now  that  the  United  States  cannot 
single-handedly act as a mediator. We have the Middle 
East Quartet, which any country can join, whether from 
Europe, the Americas, Africa or even the Arab region. 
Any country may join the Quartet to act as a mediator 
between  Palestine  and  Israel,  but  the  United  States 
cannot act as the sole mediator, because it is too biased 
towards Israel.
Thirdly, there are also agreements with Israel, such 
as  the  Oslo  Accords  and  the  Paris  Agreement.  Those 
agreements have all been abrogated by Israel, and we 
call  on  it  to  re-engage  with  them.  If  it  does  not,  we 
will  certainly  not  uphold  our  commitments.  We  have 
also  concluded  an  agreement  with  Hamas,  and  our 
brothers  in  Egypt  recognize  that  we  have  upheld  our 
side  of  the  agreement.  However,  Hamas  has  failed  to 
fulfil  its  obligations,  which  is  why  we  will  not  bear 
any responsibility from now on for the failure of that 
agreement,  if  Hamas  insists  on  rejecting  it.  I  would 
like  to  be  perfectly  clear  that  we  will  not  bear  any 
responsibility while Hamas continues to refuse to abide 
by the agreement.
Despite  all  the  injustice  we  experience  from  the 
world, we will never resort to violence or terrorism. We 
will continue to combat violence and terrorism all over 
the world. We will never accept aggression against any 
country, whether that country recognizes us or not and 
whether it likes us or not.
I would like to make a very important point. The 
United  States  Administration  stated  that  the  number 
of  Palestinian  refugees  is  only  40,000.  How  was  that 
number calculated? It need only consult UNRWA to see 
that the number it has calculated is wrong. It does not 
want to consult UNRWA; rather, it wants to obliterate 
30/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
it, so as to end the refugee issue forever. UNRWA was 
established  in  1949  in  order  to  help  the  Palestinian 
refugees until their issue is resolved. To this day, that 
issue has not been resolved. Of 13 million Palestinians, 
there are still 6 million refugees — not 40,000, as claimed 
by the United States Administration. That number has 
been arrived at haphazardly by the Administration, just 
the way it decided to abolish UNRWA and expected the 
world to agree with it. No, that will never happen.
Lastly, I call on our people to remain patient and 
steadfast  and  to  continue  to  make  sacrifices  until  we 
achieve independence and self-determination, with the 
establishment of an independent State with Jerusalem 
as its capital, not merely “in Jerusalem”. Let them not 
fool us. I pay tribute to our righteous martyrs and our 
courageous prisoners. Israel considers them criminals. 
Why? Israel has thousands of people who have attacked 
all kinds of people and are considered heroes. Why is it 
that the person who killed Yitzhak Rabin is considered 
a hero, while our people are criminals?
I send greetings to our heroic martyrs and prisoners. 
I would like to say to everyone that soon the dawn of 
freedom  and  independence  will  shine  and  the  dark 
occupation will come to an end, God willing.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the State of 
Palestine for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State 
of  Palestine,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Donald Tusk, President of the 
European Council
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the President of the European Council.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Donald Tusk, President 
of the European Council, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Tusk  (European  Council):  The  European 
Union is fighting intensely to preserve the rules-based 
international  order,  which  is  currently  under  great 
strain with regard to trade, security, climate change and 
human  rights.  We  say  that  not  only  as  countries  that 
strongly support the United Nations, but as a continent 
that cares deeply about respect, mutual understanding 
and solidarity among nations.
As leaders, we must equip the United Nations with 
the  means  to  successfully  fulfil  its  mandate.  More 
unity and collective actions are needed in the struggle 
against conflict, poverty and famine, terrorism and the 
mass displacement of people, as evident in Venezuela, 
Syria,  Myanmar  and  many  other  places.  To  that  end, 
the European Union firmly supports the current effort 
to reform the United Nations. Those reforms are much 
needed and overdue. Their urgency is clear, and their 
implementation is essential.
is 
The  European  Union 
taking  on  more 
responsibility  for  security  matters.  We  have  initiated 
ambitious cooperation among our countries’ militaries. 
We  are  ready  to  step  up  our  help  to  our  neighbours 
through crisis-management missions, capacity-building 
and peacekeeping in cooperation with others, including 
NATO,  the  African  Union  and  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe.  The  European 
Union  also  supports  the  Action  for  Peacekeeping 
initiative and expects it to produce more effective and 
better resourced global security solutions.
Europe has taken action against the increased use 
of disinformation and outside propaganda to interfere 
in  open  and  democratic  elections.  The  anonymity 
of  cyberspace  is  used  by  external  actors  to  cloak 
malicious political interference. It is not just a problem 
for Europe; many others here today have been similarly 
affected.  The  United  Nations  should  help  expose  that 
phenomenon,  attribute  responsibility  and  increase 
democratic resilience.
One  hundred  years  after  the  birth  of  Nelson 
Mandela, we commemorate his triumph over apartheid 
in  South  Africa.  I  am  very  pleased  that  the  occasion 
coincides with deeper ties between the African Union 
and the European Union. The summit of our two Unions 
in Abidjan last November was key. Thanks to excellent 
cooperation between the African Union, the European 
Union  and  the  United  Nations,  we  have  so  far  helped 
more than 30,000 people leave Libya through voluntary 
humanitarian  returns.  We  want  to  expand  the  work 
with our partners in other areas. Education, investment 
18-30067
31/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
in  development,  climate  change  and  free  trade  will 
therefore be at the heart of our future relations.
Africa is a continent of great challenges, but also 
one of equally great opportunities. Instability in Libya 
has brought the world’s attention to the suffering caused 
by  human  smugglers  and  traffickers  who  take  brutal 
advantage of people and weaken the States in which they 
operate. The Security Council named some of the worst 
violators in June. They and those like them should be 
sanctioned, apprehended and brought to justice. In the 
meantime, the European Union will work diligently and 
in good faith with our North African partners on search 
and rescue efforts in the Mediterranean. Only collective 
responsibility  can  offer  effective  solutions  to  global 
problems such as migration and forced displacement. I 
truly hope that the recent United Nations debates on the 
future management of migration and refugee protection 
represent a step in the right direction.
The  European  Union  leads  global  resettlement 
efforts,  including  resettlements  from  Turkey,  which, 
along  with  Jordan  and  Lebanon,  is  hosting  refugees 
who have been displaced by the fighting in Syria. The 
Syrian people are suffering as the war continues. The 
memorandum of understanding on Idlib must be fully 
implemented in order to help to avoid a humanitarian 
catastrophe.  All  parties  must  respect  international 
humanitarian law, ensure the protection of civilians and 
allow aid to reach those in need. A meaningful political 
process  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  is 
especially needed in order to resolve the conflict.
Sustainable 
and 
development 
increasing 
intercontinental connectivity  will  bring  countries, 
people  and  societies  closer  together.  Those  priorities 
will be crucial in our future relations with Africa and 
also at next month’s Asia-Europe Meeting, which I will 
be hosting in Brussels. They go hand in hand with the 
implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  and  other  international  commitments.  From 
floods to fires, the impact of climate change becomes 
more  visible  every  year,  and  sadly,  we  now  measure 
the  impact  by  the  loss  of  human  life.  Although  only 
slow progress is being made on our main task, which 
is  implementing  the  Paris  Agreement,  the  European 
Union remains fully committed to it and has set it as a 
priority in its relations with our partners.
On  the  subject  of  the  environment,  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  appeal  to  all  leaders  to 
take  action  in  order  to  protect  the  waters  around  the 
Antarctic. There is still time to save the natural habitat 
of many endangered species by establishing maritime 
sanctuaries in the Southern Ocean. Let me say it loud 
and  clear.  Those  who  can  imagine  our  planet  without 
whales,  penguins  and  other  species  will  also  have  to 
imagine our planet without humans.
Non-proliferation  is  another  global  challenge  we 
face, but there the situation is looking better, thanks to 
multilateral action on sanctions. A year ago, the situation 
on the Korean peninsula was critical. Although much 
depends  on  the  attitude  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  we  have  seen  that  diplomacy  can 
open  the  way  to  more  comprehensive  solutions.  A 
similar  situation  exists  with  Iran  with  regard  to  the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. While addressing 
nuclear issues, that deal has also helped to create space 
for dialogue on other matters of concern, such as Iran’s 
regional  behaviour  and  ballistic-missile  programmes. 
The  agreement  is  good  for  European,  regional  and 
global  security.  That  is  why  the  European  Union  is 
committed  to  maintaining  it  as  long  as  Iran  remains 
fully committed to it.
I  have  mentioned  the  anniversary  of  Nelson 
Mandela’s  100th  birthday.  In  the  next  few  hours, 
we  will  also  celebrate  the  seventy-fifth  birthday  of 
another Nobel Peace Prize winner, a great Pole named 
Lech  Wałęsa.  Both  men  are  symbols  of  a  beautiful 
cause  —  how  to  win  without  violence,  forgive  our 
oppressors  and  overcome  evil  with  good  in  public 
life.  Today,  when  so  many  people  —  including  some 
here  in  this  Hall,  and  even  the  most  powerful  of 
world  leaders  —  are  starting  to  give  up  on  freedom, 
solidarity  and  democracy,  let  us  remember  Mandela’s 
and Wałęsa’s message. Regardless ofhow difficult their 
situation was, they never capitulated in their fight.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the European 
Council for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium.
32/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Charles Michel, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Michel  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  “The 
only route that offers any hope of a better future for all 
humanity is that of cooperation and partnership” (A/56/
PV.7, p. 2). Those were words spoken from this rostrum 
by the late Kofi Annan 17 years ago, at the dawn of the 
twenty-first  century.  This  year,  we  commemorate  the 
centenary of the end of the First World War. Exacerbated 
rivalries, economic tensions and vengeful withdrawals 
led to misunderstanding, frustration and hard facts on 
the ground. Unilateral actions and failed dialogue led to 
the irreparable wiping out of sacrificed generations, as 
half of the twentieth century was crushed by the horror 
of two world wars and the shame of the Holocaust.
It  took  the  foresight  and  courage  of  a  generation 
to  provide  the  outline  of  an  international  order  based 
on values   and rules. From the ashes of tragedy in the 
previous century, the birth of the European Union and the 
United Nations has created hope for a better world. The 
European Union has enjoyed a period of unprecedented 
peace and prosperity. Its concrete achievements include 
a  free  economy  based  on  fair  competition,  freedom 
of  movement  and  the  establishment  of  social  and 
environmental standards.
that 
The  European  Union  is  the  result  of  a  tireless 
is  sometimes  complex  and  often 
dialogue 
restrictive. That dialogue is based on an ambition that 
goes far beyond simply adding to national interests. That 
ambition is the promise of the founding fathers, namely, 
the  freedom  and  dignity  of  every  citizen,  the  rule  of 
law and democracy as a bulwark against arbitrariness 
in governance. Those are the pillars that have laid the 
foundations for peace and security. The Charter of the 
United Nations declares the importance of dignity and 
respect  for  every  human  being,  regardless  of  where 
they come from, the colour of their skin, their origin, 
philosophical or religious beliefs or sexual orientation. 
Our universal values are the strongest and most reliable 
benchmark  for  addressing  each  of  the  challenges  that 
the world faces.
Democracy and the rule of law are always the best 
guarantees  of  the  realization  of  fundamental  rights 
and  freedoms,  because  the  rule  of  law is  the  arbiter 
that protects the weak from the strong. The rule of law 
means that we assume the consequences of our actions. 
The rule of law is the rejection of impunity. The rule of 
law  is  also  the  guarantee  that  science  and  knowledge 
are  better  shared  among  us.  Putting  human  beings  at 
the centre and establishing the rule of law as the basis 
for international order is what should drive the engine 
of multilateralism.
Multilateralism  is  not  a  hollow  and  meaningless 
concept.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  a  conviction,  because 
dialogue  is  tireless,  including  with  those  with  whom 
we  do  not  easily  share  the  same  points  of  view.  That 
dialogue  is  key.  Multilateralism  is  cooperation  and 
negotiation;  it  is  the  battle  of  ideas  and  arguments 
rather than weapons. Multilateralism is the rejection of 
violence. It is up to us to be committed to a better, more 
just, safer and more sustainable world.
Who  here  believes  that  bringing  together  the  193 
national sovereignties represented in this Organization 
with  each  acting  unilaterally  could  miraculously 
produce  a  virtuous  and  effective  response  to  our 
common challenges? That is an illusion. It is the same 
illusion as thinking that the invisible hand of the market 
can  naturally  and  miraculously  lead  to  progress  and 
shared well-being. Capitalism needs rules, and so does 
humankind. Of course multilateralism requires patient 
efforts.  Of  course  there  may  be  failures.  However, 
multilateralism  is  the  only  way  to  eradicate  poverty, 
neutralize terrorists and preserve the natural resources 
of  our  planet.  My  country  regrets  that  international 
agreements, the result of tough and intense negotiations, 
can  be  swiftly  and  unilaterally  jettisoned.  In  just 
a  few  months,  the  nuclear  agreement  with  Iran,  as 
well as trade agreements and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change, have all been cast aside by one of the 
signatory parties.
Trust  and  cooperation  between  sovereign  nations 
implies  respect  for  the  promises  and  commitments 
that  have  been  made.  History  has  always  shown  that 
the  law  of  the  survival  of  the  fittest  does  not  protect 
anyone; quite the opposite. The most lasting solutions 
are always those that are balanced and widely accepted. 
As  we  know,  Iran  was  on  the  brink  of  acquiring 
nuclear  weapons  and,  as  we  know,  the  negotiations 
on  the  problem  were  long  and  difficult  in  reaching  a 
compromise.  It  took  reciprocal  courage  to  overcome 
deep  mistrust  and  hostility,  and  we  know  that  the 
agreement  is  not  perfect,  given  that  it  does  not  cover 
Iran’s  ballistic  programme.  At  the  same  time,  the 
18-30067
33/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
inspections  conducted  by  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency confirm that Iran has been fulfilling its 
commitments.  Should  the  agreement  be  thrown  aside 
owing to its imperfection? Should we not open a new 
chapter of multilateral negotiations to complement and 
improve that agreement?
Unilateral,  brutal  and  unpredictable  actions  make 
the world more dangerous. They result in imbalance and 
frustration and serve as seeds of conflict. On the other 
hand, we are made stronger by dialogue and negotiation 
with mutual respect. Dialogue helps us to deal with and 
resolve our disagreements and offers better results. For 
70  years,  the  United  Nations  has  persistently  worked 
to improve the world, based on a common foundation 
of  fundamental  values.  It  is  our  duty  to  identify  the 
challenges,  develop  strategies  and,  especially,  to  act. 
Our  Organization  has  immeasurable  potential,  and  in 
that connection I would like to commend the intelligent, 
energetic  and 
tireless  work  of  Secretary-General 
António Guterres.
Throughout  its  history,  my  country  has  been 
committed to working for peace and building consensus. 
In that strong conviction, Belgium has been elected as a 
non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 
next two years. We will live up to the confidence placed 
in us. We will ensure that we foster dialogue with all 
actors. We want to promote a respectful and transparent 
debate so as to inspire a greater spirit of trust among 
us.  We  will  work  for  security,  prosperity  and  respect 
for our planet.
Collective  security  is  the  ultimate  requirement, 
and it is just common sense to seek to prevent conflict 
whenever  possible.  That  is  why  we  support  the 
permanent  monitoring  of  all  indicators  of  violence. 
We  are  also  in  favour  of  setting  up  early-warning 
mechanisms, because serious violations of human rights 
should never leave us indifferent. The manipulation or 
rigging  of  elections,  violations  of  territorial  integrity 
and threats of the use of force are always early-warning 
signs of future conflict. The search for a peaceful and 
political  solution  must  always  be  at  the  heart  of  our 
approach, and peacekeeping operations must always be 
part of a credible political framework.
Finally,  let  us  be  honest  with  each  other.  The 
presence  of  Blue  Helmets  on  the  ground  must  not 
become a smokescreen for political resignation, either 
in  conflict  zones  or  at  the  regional  or  international 
level. Every peace mission must be regularly evaluated 
against the yardstick of its contribution to realizing the 
political goal in the noble sense of that term. During our 
time  as  a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  we  would 
also like to focus on protecting the most vulnerable in 
armed conflicts. In our view, the protection of civilians, 
especially  children,  as  well  as  ensuring  dignity  and 
respect for women and the safety of schools, hospitals 
and humanitarian channels, are the essential priorities. 
We  cannot  tolerate  the  intolerable.  Those  who  flout, 
often  cynically, 
those  fundamental  principles  of 
international humanitarian law must be punished. The 
fight  against  impunity  must  also  seek  to  create  the 
conditions for living together in peace after the conflict. 
Living together in peace and harmony is an existential 
issue in the Near East and Middle East. The tragedies 
that  we  are  witnessing  in  Syria,  Libya  and  Yemen 
remind  us  of  the  long  road  still  to  be  travelled.  We 
cannot allow regions to become arenas for the cruel and 
deplorable  battles  of  warring  nations,  with  no  regard 
for the humanitarian tragedies that subsequently ensue.
Twenty-five  years  after  the  signing  of  the  Oslo 
Accords, the peace process in the Middle East remains 
at  a  standstill.  The  excitement  generated  by  some 
developments, which often contradict international law, 
only creates further obstacles and difficulties and dims 
hopes for peace. We maintain our support for the two-
State solution, with the two States living side-by-side in 
peace and security, with Jerusalem as a shared capital.
The proliferation of nuclear and chemical weapons 
and weapons of mass destruction poses a serious threat 
to  the  future  of  humankind.  We  will  remain  fully 
engaged in non-proliferation efforts.
We want a more prosperous world, with more shared 
development  and  the  freedom  to  be  entrepreneurial 
and  to  innovate,  create  and  trade.  The  development 
of  science  and  knowledge  and 
the  rejection  of 
obscurantism  are  always  the  basis  for  development 
and the improvement of living conditions. The digital 
economy and the artificial-intelligence revolution bring 
with  them  fears  and  uncertainties,  but  above  all  they 
offer  new  opportunities  for  a  better  world,  if  those 
advances are designed to serve everyone.
We  must  also  ensure 
that  we,  always  and 
to  promote  good 
everywhere,  encourage  efforts 
governance, 
the 
fight  against 
transparency  and 
corruption.  For  centuries,  trade  has  promoted  peace 
among peoples. Trade develops mutual understanding, 
respect  for  cultures  and  traditions,  sharing  and  the 
34/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
exchange  of  experiences.  Trade  leads  to  prosperity. 
Prosperity  leads  to  peace.  Freedom  of  trade  must  be 
based  on  healthy  and  fair  competition  and  a  shared 
level  playing  field,  with  ambitious  and  reciprocal 
social  and  environmental  standards.  In  that  respect, 
the  recent  trade  agreement  between  the  European 
Union and Canada, concluded despite much resistance, 
including in my own country, offers such guarantees. I 
am delighted with the impressive and rapidly achieved 
results,  with  jobs  and  investment  at  its  heart,  leading 
to better social protection and therefore more freedom.
Before 2050, the African continent is expected to 
have  a  population  of  2.5  billion.  One  in  four  human 
beings will therefore be African. For a long time, my 
country  has  been  advocating  for  a  new,  more  global, 
dynamic  and  ambitious  partnership  with  the  African 
continent.  We  know  how  much  potential  there  is  in 
Africa. Energy, agriculture, infrastructure and digital 
technology offer areas of opportunity for the future. I 
want to make a strong appeal here for a sacred Africa-
Europe alliance — a strong and sustainable alliance for 
the development of both continents in the service of our 
peoples,  an  alliance  for  investment,  trade  and  jobs  in 
Africa and Europe.
I say to our African friends that it is up to us, that 
we should turn the page on the antagonisms of the past. 
Let us heal ancient wounds. Let us forge a partnership 
free of nostalgia or guilt. And above all, let us dare to 
renounce charity, which eases the conscience but also 
entails  a  dose  of  humiliation.  Let  us  draw  up  a  peer-
to-peer strategy based on the shared values of the rule 
of law, democracy and respect for our fellow citizens. 
In ten years, we can, if we wish, build an unequalled 
and  unprecedented  area  of  prosperity.  I  advocate  a 
very  ambitious  free-trade  agreement,  from  continent 
to  continent,  a  global  and  reciprocal  partnership,  a 
win-win situation for all.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development sets 
out the path for a better and fairer world, and everything 
is  there  —  poverty  eradication,  access  to  health  and 
education, gender equality and the fight against global 
warming.  The  only  possible  option  is  the  general 
mobilization  and  ownership  of  this  joint  programme. 
All of us, at all levels, let us roll up our sleeves, decide 
and act, because the countdown is on. There is urgency 
about this, and the results are fundamental.
Climate  change  is  not  constrained  by  borders. 
Natural resources are limited and the number of people 
on Earth is constantly increasing. The stubbornness of 
some in denying the reality of climate change is of the 
same order as the stubbornness of those who in the past 
denied  that  the  Earth  was  round.  Prosperity  must  be 
sustainable. It can no longer be based on a frenetic and 
selfish  exploitation  of  our  precious  natural  resources. 
Oceans, biodiversity, air quality and health are precious 
assets that must be cherished and respected.
Natural disasters are falling on us one after another 
and are ever more spectacular, ever more deadly. Just a 
few weeks ago in India, in Kerala, unprecedented floods 
forever  shattered  the  fate  of  450  people,  displacing  a 
million  others  who  had  been  displaced  and  are  now 
homeless.  The  harmful  effects  of  climate  change  are 
going to cause or aggravate conflicts. In West Africa, 
for  example,  access  to  water  is  leading  to  increasing 
tensions between herders and farmers, with the risk of 
escalation on the basis of ethnicity and identity. Faced 
with  that  existential  challenge  for  our  children,  our 
responsibility  is  shared.  Alone,  we  can  do  nothing. 
Together, we can do anything.
The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  must 
be  implemented.  We  must,  of  course,  give  up  certain 
habits. We need to change our behaviours. But it will 
be worth doing, because the future of humankind is at 
stake here.
Throughout  history,  human  beings  have  always 
migrated.  Our  host  country  here  is  a  great  example. 
Men  and  women  from  elsewhere,  seeking  to  discover 
a  new  world,  have  built  a  free  and  prosperous 
nation.  This  year,  we  recorded  the  highest  number  of 
migrations  ever.  It  is  not  a  question  of  being  for  or 
against an unavoidable phenomenon. The issue is about 
whether  we  can  manage  it  in  an  orderly  way  so  as  to 
reduce fears, tensions and conflicts. We must first pull 
migration out of the claws of smugglers and traffickers 
in  human  beings,  the  abject  slavers  of  modern  times. 
We  must  also  reject  the  trap  of  deliberate  confusion 
fomented  by  populists  on  all  sides,  whether  from  the 
far left or the far right.
My  country  intends  to  continue  to  fully  assume 
its responsibility to humankind. During the past three 
years,  we  have  granted  international  protection  to 
nearly 45,000 people, and that is many more than in the 
past. I am also in favour of an effective policy of return 
for those who do not meet the conditions set forth at the 
international level.
18-30067
35/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
Finally, it needs to be said that the time has come 
to  pursue  legal  and  orderly  forms  of  international 
mobility,  for  example,  to  enable  students  to  get  an 
education and then return home, or for other economic 
reasons.  In  December,  in  Marrakech,  my  country 
will  sign  the  global  pact  on  migration,  because  that 
document  is  a  step  in  the  right  direction.  It  clarifies 
the various concepts and could be a lever for the future 
and for a more organized and controlled management 
of  international  mobility.  Indeed,  we  can  say  that 
extremists  on  all  sides  and  human  traffickers  are  in 
the same boat. The former instrumentalize and fuel the 
migration issue for electoral and political purposes, the 
latter for low financial purposes.
In  conclusion,  peace  is  our  most  precious  asset. 
History has always shown that peace requires courage 
and  vigilance  at  all  times,  and  that  no  continent  or 
country is immune to the poison of the fear of others, 
or of hatred or selfishness. We all come from different 
backgrounds,  with  our  histories,  our  cultures,  our 
traditions,  but  also  with  our  emotions,  which  stem 
from  the  roots  of  our  past.  The  demands  of  memory 
must serve our lucidity. The demands of memory must 
rally  our  energy  so  that  it  can  rise  to  the  challenges 
of  this  century.  Those  challenges  know  no  borders. 
Development,  the  fight  against  terrorism,  climate 
change, are all problems that no country, regardless of 
its economic or political power, will be able to overcome 
by itself.
Beyond our many differences, we will always share 
a common feature, our humanity. Every human being, 
by the simple fact of his or her birth, must be free. That 
being’s dignity must be recognized and respected. It is a 
pivotal value, and the fundamental condition for making 
the world progress unflaggingly towards greater hope 
and  optimism.  Our  method  is  based  on  our  faith  in  a 
committed,  creative,  invigorating  multilateralism.  We 
reject all forms of inertia and resignation, because we 
believe that the best is within us.
“Law and order rather than violence; tolerance rather 
than selfishness; knowledge rather than obscurantism; 
respect for others rather than hatred or fear”: that is my 
country’s credo. Belgium is a loyal, solid and reliable 
partner.  We  will  spare  no  effort  to  make  the  world  a 
safer, more sustainable and, above all, more just place.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Belgium for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister 
for the Economy, Minister for Communications, 
and Minister for Regional Cooperation of the 
State of Israel
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  for  the  Economy,  Minister 
for  Communications,  and  Minister  for  Regional 
Cooperation of the State of Israel.
Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  for  the  Economy, 
Minister  for  Communications,  and  Minister  for 
Regional  Cooperation  of  the  State  of  Israel,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister 
for  the  Economy,  Minister  for  Communications,  and 
Minister for Regional Cooperation of the State of Israel, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Netanyahu (Israel): When I spoke here three 
years  ago  (see  A/70/PV.22),  Israel  stood  alone  among 
the nations. Of the nearly 200 countries that sit in this 
Hall, only Israel openly opposed the nuclear deal with 
Iran.  We  opposed  it  because  it  threatens  our  future, 
even our very survival. We opposed it because the deal 
paved  Iran’s  path  to  a  nuclear  arsenal.  By  lifting  the 
sanctions, it has fuelled Iran’s campaign of carnage and 
conquest  throughout  the  Middle  East.  We  opposed  it 
because the deal was based on a fundamental lie, that 
Iran is not seeking to develop nuclear weapons.
Israel exposed that lie earlier this year. In February 
2018,  Israel  conducted  a  daring  raid  on  Iran’s  secret 
atomic  archive.  We  obtained  more  than  100,000 
documents and videos that had been stashed in vaults in 
an innocent-looking building in the heart of Tehran. In 
May, I presented a short summary of what we obtained 
to the international media. I provided hard evidence of 
Iran’s plans to build nuclear weapons and its plans to 
deceive the international community. Israel shared that 
information and even more damning evidence that we 
found with members of the five plus one group and with 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
36/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Months  have  passed,  and  the  IAEA  has  still  not 
taken any action. It has not posed a single question to 
Iran. It has not demanded to inspect a single new site 
discovered in that secret archive. Given that inaction, 
I  have  decided,  therefore,  to  reveal  today  something 
else that we have shared with the IAEA and with a few 
intelligence agencies. What I am about to say has not 
been shared publicly before. Today I am disclosing for 
the  first  time  that  Iran  has  another  secret  facility  in 
Tehran, a secret atomic warehouse for storing massive 
amounts of equipment and materiel from Iran’s secret 
nuclear-weapon programme.
In May, we exposed the site of Iran’s secret atomic 
archive. It is in the Shorabad district of Tehran. Today 
I am revealing the site of a second facility, Iran’s secret 
atomic warehouse, which is located in the Torquzabad 
district  of  Tehran,  just  three  miles  away  from  the 
archive.  Let  me  show  exactly  what  the  secret  atomic 
warehouse  looks  like.  From  this  image,  it  looks  just 
like  the  atomic  archive,  another  innocent-looking 
compound. For listeners at home using Google Earth, 
this  no-longer-secret  atomic  warehouse  is  on  Mehr 
Alley. The coordinates are on the image. Anyone can 
try to get there. And for those who try to get there, it 
is a hundred meters from the Kalishoi, a rug-cleaning 
operation. By the way, I hear they do a fantastic job of 
cleaning rugs there. But by now they may be radioactive 
rags. That is the second secret site.
Now countries with satellite capabilities may notice 
some increased activity on Mehr Alley in the days and 
weeks ahead. The people they will see scurrying back 
and  forth  are  Iranian  officials  desperately  trying  to 
finish the job of cleaning up that site. Since we raided 
the  atomic  archive,  they  have  been  busy  cleaning  out 
the  atomic  warehouse.  Just  last  month,  they  removed 
15 kilogrammes of radioactive materiel. What did they 
do  with  it?  They  had  to  get  those  15  kilogrammes  of 
radioactive materiel out of the site, so they took it out 
and  spread  it  around  Tehran  in  an  effort  to  hide  the 
evidence.  The  residents  of  Tehran,  now  endangered, 
may want to know that they can get a Geiger counter on 
Amazon for only $29.99. At today’s exchange rate, that 
is  just  4  million  Iranian  rials.  But  we  will  get  to  that 
later. I will talk about the Iranian economy in a minute.
They  took  that  radioactive  material  and  spread  it 
around  Tehran.  The  Iranian  officials  cleaning  out  the 
site still have a lot of work to do, because they had at 
least 15 gigantic ship containers full of nuclear-related 
equipment  and  materiel  stored  there.  Since  each  of 
those containers can hold 20 tons of materiel, the site 
must  have  contained  as  much  as  300  tons  of  nuclear-
related equipment and materiel, all in that very place.
We now have to ask ourselves a question. Why did 
Iran keep a secret atomic archive and a secret atomic 
warehouse?  After  all,  when  South  Africa  and  Libya 
gave up their nuclear programmes, the first thing they 
did was to destroy both the archives and the materiel 
and equipment. The answer to the question is simple. 
The reason Iran did not destroy its atomic archive and 
its atomic warehouse is because it has not abandoned 
its goal to develop nuclear weapons. In fact, it planned 
to use both of those sites in a few years when the time 
was right to break out the atom bomb. Delegations may 
rest assured that that will not happen. It will not happen 
because what Iran hides Israel will find.
I  have  a  message  for  the  Head  of  the  IAEA, 
Mr.  Yukiya  Amano.  I  believe  he  is  a  good  man.  I 
believe he wants to do the right thing. I therefore ask 
him to do the right thing now. The IAEA should inspect 
that atomic warehouse immediately, before the Iranians 
finish clearing it out. Do delegations remember the time 
when  we  were  promised  that  inspections  could  take 
place anytime, anywhere? Well, how about inspections 
of Mehr Alley right now? And while Mr. Amano is at 
it,  he  should  inspect  the  other  sites  that  we  told  him 
about.  Once  and  for  all,  he  should  tell  the  world  the 
truth about Iran.
I  also  have  a  message  today  for  the  tyrants  of 
Tehran.  Israel  knows  what  they  are  doing,  and  Israel 
knows where they are doing it. Israel will never let a 
regime  that  calls  for  our  destruction  develop  nuclear 
weapons  —  not  now,  not  in  10  years,  not  ever.  And 
Israel will do whatever it must do to defend itself against 
Iran’s aggression. We will continue to act against it in 
Syria.  We  will  act  against  it  in  Lebanon.  We  will  act 
against it in Iraq. We will act against it whenever and 
wherever we must. We must act to defend our State and 
to defend our people.
Three years ago, a few weeks after the nuclear deal 
was  completed,  I  asked  this  question  from  this  very 
podium:  does  anyone  seriously  believe  that  flooding 
Iran’s  radical  theocracy  with  weapons  and  cash  will 
curb its appetite for aggression? But many of the deal’s 
supporters believed just that. They believed that Iran’s 
regime would become more moderate, more peaceful. 
They believed that Iran would use the billions of dollars 
it  received  in  sanctions  relief  to  improve  the  lives  of 
18-30067
37/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
its  people  —  solving  the  water  problem,  the  trucking 
problem, 
improving 
hospitals  and  schools.  That  is  what  they  believed. 
Perhaps some people here today also believed that.
the  electricity  problem  and 
Well,  it  did  not  happen.  Instead,  Iran  used  the 
money to fuel its vast war machine. Just this past year, 
Iran has attacked Kurds in Iraq, slaughtered Sunnis in 
Syria, armed Hizbullah in Lebanon, financed Hamas in 
Gaza, fired missiles into Saudi Arabia and threatened 
the  freedom  of  navigation  in  the  Strait  of  Hormuz 
and the Strait of Bab El-Mandeb. That is some peace, 
some moderation.
If  people  think  that  Iran’s  aggression  has  been 
confined  to  the  Middle  East,  they  need  to  think 
again.  Last  month,  two  Iranian  agents  were  arrested 
for  plotting  terror  attacks  here  in  the  United  States, 
and  several  weeks  ago,  Iranian  agents  were  arrested 
for  plotting  terror  attacks  in  the  heart  of  Europe.  Yet 
while  the  United  States  is  confronting  Iran  with  new 
sanctions,  Europe  and  others  are  appeasing  Iran  by 
trying to help it bypass those new sanctions.
Now,  I  have  just  used  a  tough  word,  a  very 
strong  word:  appeasement.  I  use  it  reluctantly.  But 
unfortunately that is exactly what we are seeing again 
in  Europe.  We  need  to  think  about  that.  The  same 
week that Iran was caught red-handed trying to murder 
European  citizens,  European  leaders  were  rolling  out 
the red carpet for President Rouhani, promising to give 
Iran even more money. As the son of a historian, I have 
to ask — and I ask it not merely as a historian’s son, 
but as a Jew, a citizen of the world and someone who 
has lived through the twentieth century — have these 
European  leaders  learned  nothing  from  history?  Will 
they ever wake up?
We in Israel do not need a wake-up call, because 
Iran  threatens  us  every  day.  Despite  the  best  of 
hopes  —  and  there  were  many  hopes  around  the 
nuclear deal — that deal did not push war further away. 
It brought it ever closer to our borders. In Syria, Iran 
is trying to establish permanent military bases against 
us  and  has  already  launched  missiles  and  drones  into 
our territory. In Gaza, Iran is arming terror groups to 
launch rocket attacks on our cities and terror attacks on 
our civilians. In Lebanon, Iran is directing Hizbullah 
in the building of secret sites for converting inaccurate 
projectiles  into  precision-guided  missiles  that  can  hit 
targets  deep  inside  Israel  with  an  accuracy  of  within 
10 metres.
The Assembly needs to listen to this. Hizbullah is 
deliberately using the innocent people of Beirut as human 
shields. It has placed three of these missile-conversion 
sites alongside Beirut’s international airport. I can show 
a picture that is worth a thousand missiles. In it, we can 
see Beirut’s international airport, the first missile site, 
which  is  in  the  Ouzai  neighbourhood,  on  the  water’s 
edge, a few blocks away from the runway. There is also 
a  second  site,  which  is  underneath  a  soccer  stadium, 
two blocks away, and a third site, which is adjacent to 
the airport itself, right next to it.
I  therefore  have  a  message  for  Hizbullah  today. 
Israel also knows what it is doing. Israel knows where 
it is doing it. And Israel will not let it get away with it. 
Just as supporters of the nuclear deal were wrong about 
what  would  happen  when  sanctions  were  removed, 
they were dead wrong about what would happen when 
sanctions were restored. They argued that United States 
sanctions alone would have little economic impact on 
Iran. That is what they said. It is hard to believe.
Let  us  take  a  look  at  what  has  happened  to 
Iran’s  economy  now  that  President  Trump  has  forced 
companies  to  choose  between  doing  business  with 
Iran and doing business with the United States, whose 
gross  domestic  product  is  50  times  the  size  of  Iran’s 
gross  domestic  product.  A  year  ago,  Iran’s  economy 
was booming. Now it is collapsing. Iran’s currency is 
plummeting. Inflation and unemployment are soaring. 
British airlines, German banks, French oil companies, 
Japanese oil importers and many others are scrambling 
to  get  out.  If  that  is  little  economic  impact,  we  can 
imagine what will happen with the next batch of United 
States sanctions, which will be imposed in November.
The deal’s supporters were also wrong when they 
argued — and it is hard to believe that they argued this, 
despite the fact that I have had many arguments with 
them — that restoring sanctions would rally the Iranian 
people  around  the  regime.  While  they  are  definitely 
rallying,  their  rallying  is  definitely  not  around  the 
regime. They are rallying against the regime. They are 
not  chanting  “Death  to  America”.  They  are  chanting 
“Death to the dictator”. They are not chanting “Export 
the  Islamic  Revolution”.  They  are  chanting  “Leave 
Syria”,  “Leave  Lebanon”,  “Leave  Gaza”,  and  “Take 
care of us in Iran”.
I listen to those protests. I talk to Iranian people. I 
show videos and get so many responses — from Iranians. 
At  first,  I  thought  they  were  Iranian  exiles  —  in  the 
38/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
safety  of  London  or  Paris  or  Los  Angeles.  No,  these 
are  Iranians  from  Iran,  embracing  Israel,  criticizing 
their regime — that is an understatement — with their 
names. Shortly after the protests broke out, I asked my 
intelligence people, “What is going on?”
taking  place 
that  has  been 
Those  protests  are  an  indicator  of  something 
extraordinary 
there. 
Through those protests, the Iranian people are showing 
unbelievable courage. The protests are now embracing 
the whole of Iran — from the urban centres to distant 
villages, from the striking merchants in the bazaars to 
the  young  women  uncovering  their  hair.  The  people 
of  Iran  are  bravely  standing  up  to  a  regime  that  has 
brutally repressed them for four decades and that has 
squandered  —  and  still  squanders  —  their  money  in 
bloody wars across the Middle East.
This  is  what  I  say  to  Europe’s  leaders  and  to 
others.  Instead  of  coddling  Iran’s  dictators,  join  the 
United  States  and  Israel  and  most  of  the  Arab  world 
in  supporting  new  sanctions  against  a  regime  that 
endangers all of us across the world.
Israel is deeply grateful to President Trump for his 
bold decision to withdraw from the disastrous nuclear 
deal with Iran. A great many of our Arab neighbours 
are  also  grateful.  And  everyone  who  cares  about  the 
peace and security of the world should also be grateful.
But  I  have  an  important  confession  to  make.  It 
may  be  surprising,  but  I  have  to  admit  that  the  Iran 
deal has had one positive consequence, an unintended 
but positive consequence. By empowering Iran, it has 
brought Israel and many Arab States closer than they 
have  ever  been  before,  in  an  intimacy  and  friendship 
that I have not seen in my lifetime and that would have 
been unimaginable a few years ago.
When friendships are formed around a threat or a 
challenge, opportunities are quickly seen, not just for 
security but for how to bring a better life to our peoples, 
which  is  what  Israel  can  and  wants  to  contribute  to. 
Israel deeply values those new friendships, and I hope 
the  day  will  soon  arrive  when  Israel  will  be  able  to 
expand peace, a formal peace, beyond Egypt and Jordan 
to other Arab neighbours, including the Palestinians. I 
look forward to working with President Trump and his 
peace team to achieve that goal.
I  also  want  to  take  the  opportunity  now,  here  at 
the  United  Nations,  a  place  I  know  something  about 
because many years ago I served here as Ambassador 
for  many  years,  to  express  Israel’s  appreciation  to 
President  Trump  and  Ambassador  Haley  for  the 
unwavering  support  they  have  provided  to  Israel  at 
the  United  Nations.  They  have  unequivocally  backed 
Israel’s  right  to  defend  itself.  They  rightly  pulled  out 
of a history-denying UNESCO and a morally bankrupt 
Human  Rights  Council.  I  think  that  more  resolutions 
about Israel than about the rest of the world combined 
have been introduced in those bodies, and tenfold the 
number of resolutions on Iran, Syria or any other State. 
It is not even fair to say “tenfold”, because there are no 
multiples of zero.
President  Trump  and  Ambassador  Haley  also 
stopped funding an unreformed United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East,  an  organization  that  perpetuates  the  Palestinian 
refugee problem instead of solving it. Day after day, the 
Trump  Administration  has  stood  up  to  what  has  long 
been a specialty here at the United Nations, slandering 
Israel.  Even  though  the  shameful  resolution  3379 
(XXX) comparing Zionism to racism was repealed 25 
years  ago,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  its  foul  stench  still 
clings to these halls.
Israel  airlifted  Ethiopian  Jews  to  freedom  and  a 
new life in Israel, in the Jewish State. Yet here at the 
United  Nations  Israel  is  absurdly  accused  of  racism. 
Israel’s Arab citizens vote in our elections, serve in our 
Parliament,  preside  over  our  courts  and  have  exactly 
the same individual rights as all other Israeli citizens. 
Yet  here  at  the  United  Nations  Israel  is  shamefully 
accused of apartheid. Today there are at least five times 
as many Palestinians as there were in 1948, the year of 
Israel’s founding. Yet here at the United Nations Israel 
is outrageously accused of ethnic cleansing. Do those 
here know what that is? It is the same old anti-Semitism 
with a brand-new face. That is all it is.
Once it was the Jewish people who were slandered 
and held to a different standard; today it is the Jewish 
State that is slandered and held to a different standard. 
Here  is  an  example.  Take  the  outlandish  attacks  that 
have been levelled against Israel after our Knesset, our 
Parliament, recently adopted a law declaring Israel the 
nation-State of the Jewish people. Nevertheless, Israel 
is a free country. People can oppose that law, and people 
have done so. People can call for different wording in 
this or that clause, or add or delete a clause. People can 
do that.
18-30067
39/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
But  when  Israel  is  called  racist  for  making 
Hebrew  its  official  language  and  the  Star  of  David 
its  national  flag,  when  Israel  is  labelled  an  apartheid 
State for declaring itself the nation-State of the Jewish 
people — that is downright preposterous. And does the 
Assembly know why? Because represented in the Hall 
today are more than 100 countries that have only one 
official  language,  even  though  many  other  languages 
are  commonly  spoken  within  those  countries.  There 
are  more  than  50  countries  here  that  have  crosses  or 
crescents on their flags, even though they have many 
non-Muslims  and  non-Christians 
their 
midst.  And  there  are  dozens  of  countries  that  define 
themselves as nation-States of a particular people, even 
though  there  are  many  ethnic  and  national  minorities 
within  their  borders.  None  of  those  countries  have 
been denigrated or libelled for celebrating their unique 
national identity. Only Israel is denigrated. Only Israel 
is libelled. What is unique about the Jewish people is 
not that we have a nation-State. What is unique is that 
many still oppose our having a nation-State.
living 
in 
Moments  ago,  President  Abbas  outrageously  said 
that  Israel’s  nation-State  law  proves  that  Israel  is  a 
racist,  apartheid  State.  President  Abbas  should  know 
better. He wrote a dissertation denying the Holocaust. 
His  Palestinian  National  Authority  imposes  death 
sentences on Palestinians for selling land to Jews. Let 
me repeat that. If a Jew buys an apartment or a piece 
of  land  anywhere  in  the  Palestinian  territories,  the 
Palestinian  who  sold  him  that  land  is  executed.  That 
is  what  the  law  says.  President  Abbas  proudly  pays 
Palestinian  terrorists  who  murder  Jews.  In  fact,  the 
more they slay, the more he pays. That is in their law 
too.  Then  how  can  he  condemn  Israel’s  morality  and 
call Israel racist?
That is not the way to peace. That is not the way 
to achieve the peace that we all want and need and to 
which Israel remains committed. This body should not 
be applauding the Head of a regime that pays terrorists. 
The United Nations should condemn such a despicable 
policy.  And  the  United  Nations,  which  brokered  an 
Israeli-Palestinian  ceasefire  in  2014,  should  demand 
that Hamas release our fallen soldiers Oron Shaul and 
Hadar Goldin. The latter was kidnapped when Hamas 
violated that very ceasefire. Hamas should also release 
the  two  Israeli  citizens  whom  it  holds  captive,  Avera 
Mengistu and Hisham Al-Sayed.
Every  time  I  stand  here  I  feel  as  I  do  today.  I 
am  privileged  to  stand  here  as  the  Prime  Minister 
of  the  State  of  Israel,  a  Jewish  and  democratic  State. 
Some  believe  that  Israel  cannot  be  both  Jewish  and 
democratic. That is false. Israel is both, and Israel will 
always  remain  both.  Ever  since  Abraham  and  Sarah 
made their journey to the promised land, nearly 4,000 
years  ago,  the  land  of  Israel  has  been  our  homeland. 
It  is  the  place  where  Isaac  and  Rebecca,  Jacob,  Leah 
and  Rachel  carried  out  their  eternal  covenant  with 
God.  It  is  where  Joshua  made  us  a  sovereign  nation, 
where  David  ruled  and  Isaiah  preached,  where  the 
Maccabees fought and where Masada fell. It is the place 
from which we were exiled and to which we returned, 
rebuilding  our  ancient  and  eternal  capital,  Jerusalem. 
The nation-State of Israel is the only place where the 
Jewish people proudly exercise our collective right of 
self-determination. That right was recognized nearly a 
century ago by the League of Nations, and more than 70 
years ago by the United Nations when it supported the 
establishment of a Jewish State. That is what resolution 
181 (II) said, “a Jewish State”.
At  the  same  time,  Israel  is  a  vibrant  democracy, 
where all its citizens, Jews and non-Jews alike, enjoy 
equal individual rights, and those rights are guaranteed 
by  law.  In  Israel,  whether  a  person  is  a  Jew  or  an 
Arab, a Christian or a Muslim, a Druze or a Bedouin 
or  anything  else,  that  person’s  individual  rights  are 
exactly  the  same  and  will  always  remain  the  same. 
In the Middle East that is not obvious. Now that is an 
understatement. In the Middle East, where women are 
often treated as property, minorities are persecuted and 
gays are hanged, Israel stands out as a shining example 
of freedom and progress.
I could not be more proud to represent my country, 
Israel.  I  am  proud  that  we  have  made  Israel  a  global 
technological  Power  of  breathtaking  creativity  in 
information  technology  and  precision  agriculture.  Is 
the Assembly aware that we target the fertilizer and the 
water  down  to  the  individual  plant  —  not  to  a  field, 
not to part of a field, but down to the plant? I am proud 
of those geniuses that have brought those unbelievable 
developments  in  water  management,  cybersecurity, 
autonomous  vehicles,  digital  health,  medical  devices 
and so many other fields that are improving the lives of 
billions of people around the world. I am proud of Israel’s 
brilliant  scholars,  innovative  entrepreneurs,  talented 
artists,  devoted  teachers  and  compassionate  doctors, 
and  of  our  search-and-rescue  teams  who  save  lives 
from Haiti to Mexico, from Nepal to the Philippines. I 
am also proud of Israel’s courageous soldiers, the men 
40/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
and  women  who  bravely  defend  our  homeland  while 
upholding the highest values. Most of all, I am proud of 
the people of Israel, who draw extraordinary strength 
from the deep wellsprings of our heritage, who possess 
an  unbreakable  spirit  and  who  are  as  determined  as 
ever  to  build  a  secure  and  magnificent  future  for  the 
one and only Jewish State.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Malta
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Muscat,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Muscat (Malta): This summer we lost a great 
man,  Kofi  Annan.  He  stood  for  the  need  for  Member 
States to be united in our approach if we wish to achieve 
the goals of the United Nations. That is why I am here 
addressing  the  General  Assembly  today,  because  I 
believe  that  global  problems  require  global  solutions. 
Advocating  a  global  approach  does  not  mean  loving 
your  country  less  than  others.  It  means  that  working 
together  makes  it  less  likely  that  a  might-is-right 
doctrine will prevail. Furthermore, better solutions can 
be found together, rather than alone.
In  order 
to  find  solutions  we  must  remain 
committed  to  communicating  and  understanding  one 
another. Whatever challenges we need to address and 
however different each nation’s views and perspectives 
are,  we  have  a  better  chance  at  solving  them  as  a 
united force, rather than divided or on our own. Malta, 
being  a  member  of  both  the  European  Union  and  the 
Commonwealth,  knows  only  too  well  that  no  single 
nation, big or small, can tackle global problems alone.
The  trend  of  nations  drifting  towards  reactions 
based only on their own borders is a worrying one. Some, 
unfortunately, are wanting to solve global issues with 
local solutions, which, as many here recognize, can at 
best give the illusion of working for a limited period of 
time, and at worst lead to almost immediate implosion.
We must, of course, respect the sovereignty of all 
nations, and we have no right to stand here before the 
Assembly  hoping  to  judge  others.  But  those  who  are 
closing themselves off from debate believe falsely that 
they can escape certain issues. We are seeing divisions 
not just among global leaders or nations, but within our 
own societies, neighbourhoods and even families. Local 
solutions  breed  global  problems,  which  then  manifest 
themselves  with  devastating  results,  from  the  use  of 
plastic products that are polluting our seas to the point 
that  they  are  killing  our  sea  life,  to  mass  migrations 
and  the  effect  of  displacement  on  both  migrants  and 
host  societies,  where  there  are  vulnerable  people  on 
both sides.
I mention those examples because both of them have 
hit us particularly hard in Malta and in the Mediterranean 
Sea. The latter is visible to all. We are in the centre of the 
Mediterranean Sea, in the middle of the route between 
North Africa, Libya and mainland Europe, the centre of 
a journey that thousands of people have undertaken in 
recent years. We have been grappling with complexities 
that  have  existed  for  years  —  much  longer  than  has 
been recognized on a priority basis by the international 
community — and that have dominated media headlines 
in Europe and beyond. Although crossings through the 
central Mediterranean have decreased in the past year, 
the concerns of our populations have grown. And many 
feel the international community has failed to provide 
solutions  for  them.  That  has  given  rise  to  movements 
that preach simplistic solutions to complex problems.
What can surely be stopped, if we have a unified 
approach,  are  the  criminal  gangs  profiting  from 
smuggling  human  beings.  With  a  global  strategy 
that  can  deliver  incisive  blows  to  migrant  smugglers, 
we  can  disrupt  their  online  recruitment  efforts,  their 
payment methods and their supply of sea vessels. Most 
important,  working  together,  we  can  stop  the  people 
profiting from a practice that has often resulted in the 
deaths of so many innocent people.
Malta is a small State that has one of the highest 
rates of economic growth in Europe and in the world, 
but  that  also  ranks  among  the  highest  worldwide  in 
terms of the number of asylum applications per capita. 
Despite that, our humanitarian response is still fully in 
18-30067
41/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
line with our international commitments. That is also 
true  for  Malta’s  embarkation  policy,  which  has  been 
consistent  and  clear.  And  we  expect  others,  not  only 
States but also the non-State actors involved, to abide 
by international rules.
In recent weeks — because of the actions of a few 
who have not abided by the relevant conventions — Malta 
had  to  bring  together  like-minded  nations  with  a 
humanitarian conscience to offer a place of safety for 
stranded migrants. We had no legal obligation to do so, 
but we did it in a spirit of seeking unified solutions. And 
it  proved  that  when  solidarity  works,  complex  issues 
can often have simple solutions. Although I am under 
no  illusion  and  know  that  this  was  just  a  temporary 
respite  in  a  much  bigger  problem,  such  actions  could 
provide  a  foundation  for  long-term  solutions,  if  all 
European  Union  member  States  could  come  together 
in  a  solution  resembling  a  Bretton  Woods-style 
institutional arrangement for addressing and managing 
migration with international support.
The  soon  to  be  adopted  global  compact  on 
migration,  which  aims  to  establish  a  new  global 
migration  governance  architecture  on  the  principle  of 
shared international responsibilities and solidarity, is a 
welcome move in the right direction. But it is a milestone 
on  the  road  rather  than  the  end  of  the  road.  We  must 
now walk the talk by engaging in operational action.
Narratives  that  use  inflated  or  false  facts  and 
thrive on a nation’s fear of openness have led to painful 
outcomes  in  history,  not  only  producing  the  obvious 
effects but also affecting the dynamics of international 
relationships,  which  overflow  into  other  issues  with 
devastating  results.  The  current  surge  in  nationalism 
and  tighter  border  controls  threatens  to  do  just  that, 
with the potential for obstructing democratic decisions 
fuelling extremism of all kinds.
However, let us take some comfort in knowing that 
in the 73 years of the existence of the United Nations, 
the  going  has  always  been  tough.  In  fact,  those  who 
have  stood  where  I  am  standing  today  have  faced 
much worse crises, from wars and famines to injustice 
and  killer  diseases.  But  through  unified  approaches, 
solutions were found and nations survived. Each time 
we came together we emerged stronger as an institution, 
as  a  global  community.  We  currently  live  in  a  world 
with  fewer  wars  and  more  dialogue  and  cooperation 
than ever before.
But  our  work  is  not  done,  and  it  probably  never 
will be. Although fewer people live in extreme poverty, 
that  scourge  has  not  been  eradicated.  We  have  found 
solutions  to  many  life-threatening  diseases,  yet  cures 
are  still  needed  for  others.  Injustice  remains,  and 
climate change could be the greatest threat to life in our 
history. As we solve one issue, another replaces it. That 
is life. However, the important thing is that we continue 
to strive and work towards the greater good. But we can 
only do that together.
One  way  forward  that  Malta  advocates  is  the 
harnessing  of  new  technologies,  which  offer  endless 
possibilities. We are currently in exciting technological 
times. With the lightning pace of current technological 
advances,  each  incredible  piece  of  innovation  could 
hold a new solution to problems that may have persisted 
for  decades  —  from  advanced  robotics  and  artificial 
intelligence to 3D printing and the Internet of things.
Clearly,  the  fast  and  obvious  transition  to  the 
digital  economy  and  society  poses  challenges,  which 
have  to  do  with  the  very  nature  of  concepts  that  we 
believed would stay as they were forever. One of them 
is  the  nature  of  work  —  how  we  envisage  it,  how  we 
compensate it, how we maximize its efficiency and how 
the State creates new safety nets. That is a conversation 
that has just started globally, but that will shape public 
debate during our lifetime.
We can take the antagonistic view that technological 
progress is bad for us, that it will lead to new types of 
poverty, that it will strip people of their rights or even 
take decisions out of our hands. While such concerns 
may  serve  the  needs  of  some  politicians  in  the  short 
term, and even appeal to well-meaning people who are 
afraid  that  progress  will  cost  them  their  jobs  or  even 
more, such an approach is as myopic as advocating in 
the past that horse-drawn carts should not be replaced 
by motor vehicles.
Whether  we  are  talking  about  immigration  or 
technology,  we  do  not  arrive  at  solutions  by  closing 
doors.  The  digital  economy  should  be  seen  as  an 
opportunity,  but  we  must  realize  that  we  cannot  do 
the  best  job  of  harnessing  its  opportunities  without 
evolving the current social contracts we have in place. 
Those who will be able to pair the digital economy with 
a  new  State,  the  digital  State,  will  be  best  poised  to 
have  a  future-proof  society  in  which  change  does  not 
galvanize extremes but helps to ensure further decades 
of sensible, mainstream policymaking and prosperity.
42/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Mr.  Beleffi  (San  Marino),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Then  there  are  the  other  big  questions  for  which 
the dawn of the digital age requires answers. Can we 
solve diplomatic negotiations that are at a stalemate by 
applying algorithms that can avoid war? Can we disarm 
terrorists by using the latest technologies? Is it possible 
to know immediately which remote parts of our planet 
need international humanitarian assistance? Could we 
create new organs for people so that no one on a waiting 
list dies for lack of a donor? Can we look forward to the 
day when humankind can be told that there is a cure for 
all cancers?
Only  time  will  tell.  But  it  is  the  accessibility  of 
advanced  technologies  that  will  lead  to  solutions, 
hopefully  for  the  whole  world.  I  believe  passionately 
that technology can revolutionize and improve systems. 
That is why we have launched Malta as the blockchain 
island  by  being  the  first  jurisdiction  worldwide  to 
regulate that new technology, which previously existed 
in a legal vacuum. Blockchain makes cryptocurrencies, 
the inevitable future of money, more transparent, since 
it helps to separate good business from bad.
But  such  distributed-ledger  technologies  can  do 
much  more.  They  can  provide  solutions  to  health-
care  systems  in  which  patients  have  real  ownership 
of  their  medical  records.  Emissions-trading  systems 
can  be  taken  to  the  next  level.  We  can  help  to  verify 
that  humanitarian  assistance  is  reaching  its  intended 
destination.  We  can  make  sure  that  people  are  not 
deprived  of  their  legitimate  property  because  of 
compromised data. Corporations will be able to become 
more  accountable  to  their  shareholders.  States  will 
have  to  move  from  hoarding  information  on  citizens 
to  regulating  an  environment  where  citizens  trust  the 
handling of their data.
Those are just a few of the ways in which we can 
counter regressive and reactionary politics. This forum 
shows  that  we  stand  to  gain  through  dialogue  and 
cooperation,  which  will  always  triumph  over  division 
and self-absorption because in unity we can have hope.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Malta for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Mamuka Bakhtadze, Prime 
Minister of Georgia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Georgia.
Mr.  Mamuka  Bakhtadze,  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mamuka  Bakhtadze, 
Prime Minister of Georgia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Bakhtadze  (Georgia)  (spoke  in  Georgian: 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great 
honour to address the General Assembly in my native 
tongue, Georgian, one of the most ancient languages of 
world civilization and an integral part of it.
Today is 27 September, an extremely troubling and 
painful date in my country’s history. Twenty-five years 
ago today, the occupation of a historical part of Georgia 
started, turning into an extremely severe challenge for 
Georgia’s newly established statehood. Ten years ago, 
the Russian Federation launched yet another large-scale 
military aggression against my country, which resulted 
in  the  full-scale  occupation  of  Georgia’s  two  historic 
and integral regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali.
Ten  years  after  that  military  aggression,  our 
territories  remain  occupied.  As  a  result  of  ethnic 
cleansing, 10 per cent of our population is still forcefully 
displaced,  while  the  rights  of  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  our  citizens  are  being  disregarded.  The  situation 
in  Abkhazia  and  the  Tskhinvali  regions  is  dire  and 
alarming. The situation in the occupied territories is a 
humanitarian disaster of the worst kind. The growing 
militarization  of  those  regions  is  in  full  swing,  and 
depopulation is increasing by the minute. Because of the 
grave  humanitarian,  socioeconomic  and  human  rights 
situation,  the  population  in  the  occupied  regions  has 
dropped by a factor of four or five since the occupation 
began.  Razor  wire  and  other  artificial  barriers  split 
families and violate fundamental human rights. Those 
who live along the occupation lines are even prevented 
from visiting houses of prayer and the graves of their 
ancestors.  Our  citizens  are  forbidden  to  educate  their 
children  in  their  native  language.  Abductions,  torture 
and  murder  continue.  Archil  Tatunashvili,  Giga 
Otkhozoria and 18-year-old Davit Basharuli are recent 
victims of such atrocities. Because of those and many 
other  cruel  offences,  the  Otkhozoria-Tatunashvili  list 
18-30067
43/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
was created in order to record the names of those who 
have  committed  such  egregious  crimes.  We  believe 
that those on the list must be held accountable through 
applicable international law.
The occupation and blatant disregard of the rule of 
law has created serious challenges to the stability and 
security of Georgia and the wider region. Owing to the 
existing conflicts in the South Caucasus, even a minor 
incident  may  escalate  into  uncontainable  unrest  with 
subsequent  serious  consequences.  The  international 
community’s  firm  support  for  the  peaceful  resolution 
of  the  Russia-Georgia  conflict  is  critically  important. 
The  international  community  must  stand  together 
and strong in support of the principle of the sovereign 
equality  of  States  and  the  inviolability  of  their 
internationally  recognized  borders,  because  only  by 
observing the fundamental norms of international law 
and protecting human rights can we ensure peace and 
security throughout the world.
Russia has yet to fulfil its international obligations 
and  respect  the  2008  ceasefire  agreement  reached 
through the mediation of the European Union (EU). We, 
on the other hand, have fulfilled that agreement down 
to  the  smallest  detail  and  have  assumed  the  legally 
binding  obligation  not  to  use  force.  That  affirms  our 
irreversible  policy  of  seeking  an  exclusively  peaceful 
resolution of the conflict. I therefore urge the Russian 
Federation  to  fulfil  the  international  obligations  that 
it has signed and withdraw its occupation forces from 
Georgia’s territory. 
We  are  actively  trying  to  use  the  format  of  the 
Geneva  international  discussions,  but  our  attempts 
at  the  negotiation  table  have  met  with  unfounded  and 
absolutely unacceptable resistance from Russia. I would 
like to reiterate that we attach special importance to the 
role of the United Nations in the Geneva talks, which the 
United Nations co-chairs along with the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the EU.
In the twenty-first century, as people, nations and 
cultures strive for greater integration and development, 
the installation of artificial barriers and barbed wire are 
absolutely unacceptable. We want to break the deadlock 
in  the  relations  between  Russia  and  Georgia,  but  that 
can be accomplished only through respect for Georgia’s 
territorial integrity and sovereignty and the principles 
of international law. Despite the injustice that we have 
suffered,  our  only  response  to  these  challenges  has 
been  to  continue  our  quest  for  peace  and  Georgia’s 
development. We have proposed a new peace initiative 
designed to overcome the humanitarian disaster in the 
occupied  territories  and  create  new  opportunities  for 
our citizens there. With that initiative, we are fighting 
to  stop  the  process  of  depopulation  in  the  occupied 
territories and ensure respect for people’s fundamental 
human rights. We call that initiative “A Step to a Better 
Future”, and it seeks precisely to provide the populations 
in  the  occupied  territories  with  access  to  health  care 
and educational services and to create opportunities for 
income-generating activities for them so that they can 
feed their families and ensure their physical survival.
Today, from this rostrum, I would like to address 
our Abkhaz and Ossetian compatriots. Georgia’s every 
success is their success. We share a common historical 
past, which must pave the way for our future, which I 
am convinced will bring us peace and prosperity. It is 
the Georgian authorities’ duty to protect and guarantee 
the  rights  of  every  citizen,  and  we  are  irreversibly 
committed to fulfilling that duty. They should enjoy all 
the benefits put in place by Georgia, whether regarding 
human rights, education, health care or visa-free travel 
to  Europe.  I  would  particularly  like  to  address  young 
people there. Together, through joint efforts and pursuing 
opportunities, we can achieve success and prosperity. I 
want the youth to know that it is only in unity with them 
that we see our future. And I would once again like to 
urge Russia not to undermine or compromise our peace 
initiatives and to make it possible for the citizens in the 
occupied territories to lead a decent life.
With  its  rich  culture  and  ancient  history,  Georgia 
has always stood with the world’s civilized nations and 
contributed to the development of European and global 
civilizations.  Accordingly,  we  remain  engaged  in  the 
fight against the challenges facing humankind. Today, 
unfortunately, that list is quite long. It includes conflicts, 
terrorism, migration and forced displacement, climate 
change,  poverty  and  grave  human  rights  violations. 
Addressing those issues requires enormous efforts and 
strong political will on the part of the United Nations 
and each Member State. Each and every one of us must 
confront  those  challenges  in  order  to  make  the  world 
a better place. We strongly believe that the pursuit of 
national interests in the modern world should be based 
on  mutual  respect  and  should  in  no  way  be  carried 
out  at  the  expense  of  others.  It  is  in  that  context  that 
I  would  like  to  echo  the  theme  of  this  year’s  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  reaffirm  that  we  are 
committed  to  making  our  contribution  to  our  shared 
44/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
goal  of  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies, 
and to strengthening the role of the United Nations by 
helping it to make progress in achieving its goals.
In  establishing  a  democratic  republic,  a  century 
ago,  Georgia  made  its  civilizational  choice  to  define 
the  future  of  our  nation.  We  belong  in  the  common 
European family. That choice remains unchanged and is 
yet another strong argument confirming our European 
identity. Georgia, with its values and contributions, has 
always been an organic part of Europe,  as shown by its 
successful cooperation with the EU. 
included 
When  Georgia  declared  independence,  a  century 
ago, its Constitution was built on the very values and 
principles  that  remain  relevant  and  progressive  even 
today. Suffice it to say that a century ago the multiparty 
Georgian  Parliament 
five  women,  an 
achievement  rarely  found  even  among  the  established 
democracies  of  that  time.  This  year  my  country  is 
celebrating  the  100th  anniversary  of  that  event,  the 
declaration  of  our  democratic  republic.  Georgia 
regained its independence 27 years ago and embarked 
on  a  path  to  building  a  modern  democratic  State.  It 
may not seem like a long time in historical terms, but 
our  young  democracy  has  faced  numerous  trials  and 
tribulations  over  that  period.  Today’s  Georgia  is  the 
heir  and  successor  to  the  values  enshrined  a  century 
ago.
independent 
Georgia’s  progress  in  recent  years  in  terms  of 
democratic consolidation, respect for human rights and 
strengthening the rule of law is the unequivocal result 
of  its  fundamental  reforms.  Our  strong  Parliament, 
non-partisan  President, 
judiciary  and 
effective Government are the outcome of our successful 
constitutional  reform,  and  the  country  is  therefore 
switching  to  a  European  parliamentary  model  of 
governance.  For  us,  the  country’s  development  fully 
focuses  on  free  human  beings  and  on  human  capital 
created  by  those  free  human  beings.  Our  ambitious 
education reforms and modernization of the education 
system  will  be  yet  another  breakthrough  on  the  path 
to overcoming the challenges that we face today. Only 
educated,  motivated,  confident  young  people  can 
bring  about  progress,  eliminate  poverty  and  ensure 
that  Georgia  joins  the  developed  and  innovative 
economies. A small, flexible and effective Government 
is  counterbalanced  by  strong  public  and  institutional 
mechanisms  of  control  and  civil  society,  which 
perfectly reflects our commitments under Sustainable 
Development Goal 16.
to 
Georgia’s  election  last  year  as  Chair  of  the  Open 
Government  Partnership  was  a  recognition  of  our 
country’s  achievements,  bearing  witness 
the 
effectiveness of the efforts that have brought our society 
concrete results. Protecting fundamental human rights 
and dignity is our top priority. In that regard, Georgia 
has emerged as the region’s leading reformer in recent 
years.  Especially  noteworthy  is  the  fact  that  we  have 
overcome a major challenge in the penitentiary system 
that we inherited. Most notably, we have made visible 
progress  with  regard  to  the  respect  for  human  rights 
in  prisons.  We  have  implemented  important  judicial 
reforms, which we intend to continue by launching the 
next  wave  of  reforms.  One  of  the  main  achievements 
of  our  political  action  has  been  to  establish  media 
freedom and media pluralism. In 2018, Georgia further 
improved  its  position  in  the  World  Press  Freedom 
Index,  and  we  have  exceptional  achievements  in  the 
area of Internet freedom.
Civil society plays a definitive role in the process 
of  building  democracy.  Without  a  strong  civil 
society,  especially  in  a  young  democracy,  a  country’s 
harmonious development is unimaginable. We want an 
independent, strong, and active civil society to develop 
in  our  country.  Under  our  sustainable  development 
policy, we have prioritized green policies and a green 
economy.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  developing  a 
digital  economy  poised  to  advance  the  country  to  a 
qualitatively  new  level.  Our  economic  strategy  relies 
on  inclusive  economic  development  and  economic 
growth, which are being reflected in the well-being of 
each citizen. We have been successfully implementing 
that  strategy,  aimed  at  transforming  Georgia  into  the 
region’s  economic,  tourism,  logistics  and  educational 
hub, as evidenced by our leading positions in reputable 
international rankings.
Our  country’s  unique  geography  and  strategic 
location  between  Europe  and  Asia  have  positioned 
Georgia  for  centuries  as  an  attractive  meeting  place 
for civilizations and cultural dialogue. We continue to 
fulfil that function, and we are implementing ambitious 
and  crucial  new  projects  to  that  end.  A  few  years 
ago,  we  addressed  the  world  from  this  rostrum  and 
offered  to  host  the  Silk  Road  Forum  in  Georgia.  We 
have not only made the Forum a reality but have also 
reclaimed  Georgia’s  historical  role  in  the  wider  Silk 
Road region. Today, however, I would like to propose a 
new initiative and offer to facilitate the Tbilisi Forum, 
focusing on transforming the Black Sea region and the 
18-30067
45/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
Caucasus,  which  are  currently  areas  of  confrontation 
and  challenges,  into  a  space  for  peace,  cooperation, 
and development.
Georgia’s  every  achievement,  its  democratic  and 
economic development and leading regional position in 
various areas are the result specifically of our European 
and  Euro-Atlantic  choice,  which  is  enshrined  in  the 
Constitution and the relevant parliamentary resolutions. 
NATO-Georgia  relations  have  become  very  dynamic 
and  comprehensive.  Georgia 
is  a  NATO-aspirant 
country and an enhanced opportunities partner, as well 
as  the  largest  per  capita  contributor  of  troops  to  the 
United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan, thereby 
contributing to the architecture of global security.
Everyone here is aware of the disturbing threat posed 
by  transnational  terrorism,  which  is  much  larger  and 
more overwhelming today than ever before. Terrorism 
is the twenty-first century’s common enemy. In the fight 
against  that  shared  threat,  Georgia  has  always  stood, 
and will continue to stand, shoulder to shoulder with the 
international community. Unfortunately, many valiant 
Georgian soldiers have fallen in the global fight. We all 
agree that combating terrorism, along with preventing 
and responding adequately to that scourge, is possible 
only through joint efforts and shared responsibilities. I 
am convinced that we will defeat it.
Georgia’s pain is not a problem facing one country 
alone.  In  2008,  the  world  perceived  the  aggression 
against Georgia as a problem in the relations between 
just  two  countries.  The  way  things  continued  to 
unfold,  however,  showed  that  at  the  time  the  world 
was  unprepared  to  adequately  assess  and  respond  to 
that  aggression.  Unfortunately,  the  United  Nations 
proved ineffective in the face of that challenge. Today, 
the  global  security  system  is  eroding  before  our  very 
eyes.  Today’s  world  needs  a  stronger  United  Nations, 
and  the  international  community  needs  institutions 
capable  of  properly  evaluating  and  responding  to 
today’s  challenges  and  preventing  the  risks  that  are 
undermining global security.
As  Members  know,  the  debates  on  reforming  the 
United Nations began in the 1990s, although we must 
admit  that  we  cannot  see  any  serious  success  in  that 
direction  so  far.  That  is  why  the  issue  of  reforming 
the  United  Nations  remains  relevant,  and  I  believe 
that  it  requires  immediate  action.  As  the  world  faces 
the  challenges  of  a  new  era  with  problems  yet  to 
be  identified,  we  all  have  the  task  of  reacting  to  and 
jointly overcoming global challenges in order to ensure 
a peaceful and better world for future generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mamuka  Bakhtadze,  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Prime 
Minister of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam.
Mr.  Nguyen  Xuan  Phuc,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Socialist  Republic  of  Viet  Nam,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nguyen  Xuan  Phuc, 
Prime Minister of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Nguyen  Xuan  Phuc  (spoke  in  Vietnamese; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am  very 
honoured  to  deliver  this  statement  during  the  general 
debate of the General Assembly at the beginning of its 
seventy-third  session,  whose  theme  has  been  chosen 
as “Making the United Nations relevant to all people: 
global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”.
I should like to congratulate Ms. Espinosa Garcés 
on  her  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  believe  that  this  session 
will  be  a  great  success  under  her  leadership.  I  would 
also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  very 
important  initiatives  that  Secretary-General  Guterres 
has championed since taking office.
May  I  also,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and 
people of Viet Nam, express my sincere gratitude to the 
General Assembly for the minute of silence observed in 
memory of the late President of the Socialist Republic 
of Viet Nam, who recently passed.
Humankind  has  still  not  forgotten  the  scourge  of 
the two World Wars of the twentieth century. However, 
since  the  birth  of  the  United  Nations  in  1945,  world 
wars have become a thing of the past. The foundations 
of peace on our planet have continued to be reinforced 
thanks to the efforts of the United Nations, the largest 
46/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
multilateral  organization  where  the  largest  number 
of  countries  meet.  Over  the  past  70  years,  the  United 
Nations has played an enormous role through its tireless 
efforts to preserve peace, prevent conflicts and wars and 
realize the purposes and principles of the Organization 
as codified in the Charter of the United Nations.
We  have  seen  significant  achievements  in  recent 
years in global cooperation and development, ranging 
from the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons 
to  reforms  of  the  United  Nations,  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  2015  and  the 
adoption  and  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
The  United  Nations  has  also  been  vital  in  efforts 
to  address  global  issues,  including  reducing  poverty, 
protecting  women  and  children,  promoting  human 
rights,  improving  health  care,  culture  and  education, 
preserving the environment and responding to climate 
change.  Today  the  United  Nations  has  truly  become 
a  symbol  of  global  solidarity,  the  embodiment  of 
humankind  and  progress  and  the  place  where  our 
aspirations for a world of peace, prosperity and equality 
are realized.
Viet  Nam  has  been  a  companion  to  the  United 
Nations and contributed to the noble goals pursued by 
the Organization over the past 70 years. We are a staunch 
supporter  of  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the multilateral international system and have actively 
joined in efforts to realize its fundamental cooperation 
pillars — the maintenance of global peace and security, 
development  cooperation  and 
the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights.
Once a poor, underdeveloped country with a food 
deficit, over the past 20 years Viet Nam has recorded 
average annual gross domestic product growth of more 
than 6 per cent to become one of the world’s largest food 
exporters. Since 2010, we have been a middle-income 
developing  country,  and  the  living  standards  of  our 
nearly 100 million citizens have improved dramatically. 
By  actively  engaging  in  international  integration, 
Viet Nam enjoys free trading relations with nearly 60 
major  countries  and  partners  in  the  world  through  its 
membership of 16 free trade agreements.
Most  recently,  we  successfully  hosted  the  Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  throughout  2017,  the 
132nd  Assembly  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
in  2015,  the  2018  World  Economic  Forum  on  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
and the sixth Greater Mekong Subregion Cooperation 
Summit  in  2018.  We  are  also  working  towards  the 
ASEAN  Community  Vision  2025,  which  aims  to 
strengthen ASEAN centrality in the evolving regional 
architecture.  Viet  Nam  has  also  taken  the  initiative 
and  taken  part  in  many  important  United  Nations 
mechanisms, 
in  many 
different areas.
contributing 
responsibly 
Viet Nam is also making greater efforts to promote 
justice  and  sustainable  development,  foster  equality 
and  support  for  disadvantaged  groups,  protect  the 
environment  and  ensure  rights  for  all  citizens,  while 
upholding  a  spirit  of  dialogue  and  cooperation  in 
the  area  of  human  rights.  We  have  always  attached 
importance to preserving cultural and natural heritage 
and national identity. We are one of the few countries 
to  have  accomplished  many  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals ahead of schedule, particularly for 
poverty reduction.
We  have  made  it  our  consistent  policy  to  uphold 
the Charter of the United Nations and the fundamental 
principles  of  international  law  with  regard  to  the 
settlement  of  international  disputes  through  peaceful 
means.  That  includes  in  the  South  China  Sea,  where 
there are issues that should be addressed on the basis of 
the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea  and  the  need  to  safeguard  maritime  security  and 
safety and the freedom of navigation and overflight.
Cooperation and assistance from the international 
community,  including  the  United  Nations,  has  been 
extremely valuable for Viet Nam in its efforts to achieve 
sustainable development, international integration and 
poverty  reduction.  On  this  occasion,  I  would  like,  on 
behalf  of  the  Vietnamese  Government  and  people,  to 
express my sincere gratitude to the United Nations and 
all countries and international organizations that have 
lent their active and effective assistance to Viet Nam.
Our planet is experiencing rapid change, propelled 
by the scientific and technological breakthroughs of the 
fourth industrial revolution as well as the irreversible 
trend  of  globalization.  That  opens  up  a  range  of  new 
opportunities  to  guide  humankind  into  a  new  era  of 
economic growth unprecedented in the history of our 
civilization, further bolstering the main global currents 
of peace, cooperation and development.
is  also  facing 
immense  new 
challenges.  World  peace  has  yet  to  be  guaranteed, 
although  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  has 
the  world 
Yet 
18-30067
47/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
seen  new  progress.  In  the  Middle  East,  Africa  and 
elsewhere, conflict, or the threat of conflict, is ongoing, 
and  immigration  remains  a  pressing  matter  for  many 
countries. Power politics, the use or threat of force and 
the rise of unilateral measures continue to pose threats 
to  international  peace  and  stability.  Injustice  and 
inequality remain in many parts of the world. Risks and 
instabilities are ever-present in global development. The 
effects of climate change and environmental pollution 
are  widespread.  Poverty  is  still  a  major  challenge, 
with  nearly  750  million  people  still  living  in  extreme 
poverty,  among  whom  are  many  children  suffering 
from hunger and deprivation without access to health 
care or proper education.
No single nation, regardless of its might or wealth, 
can  single-handedly  address  those  enormous  global 
challenges.  They  require  the  common  efforts  and 
collaboration of all nations. I would like to suggest that 
a concept of dual responsibility should be universally 
upheld. Each nation should take additional responsibility 
for addressing global issues, and each individual should 
take additional responsibility as a global citizen.
Against  that  backdrop,  I  share  Secretary-General 
Guterres’s  view  that  the  role  of  the  United  Nations 
has  become  all  the  more  important  in  the  creation 
of  new  foundations  for  more  effectively  addressing 
global  challenges.  We  must  continue  highlighting  the 
role of the United Nations and join hands for a world 
of  peace,  equality  and  sustainable  development.  In 
that process, it is my hope that the major Powers and 
developed countries will take meaningful action to play 
an exemplary role in maintaining peace and fostering 
development.  The  General  Assembly  should  be  the 
heart of cooperation among countries and peoples for 
peace, equality and sustainable development.
In that connection, we support lifting the unilateral 
embargo on Cuba, so that nation can exercise its freedom 
to  participate  equitably  and  fairly  in  economic  and 
trading relations in accordance with international law.
Peace,  freedom  and  prosperity  have  always  been 
the desire and aspiration of all peoples. In the age of the 
fourth  industrial  revolution,  humankind’s  progress  is 
measured not only by feats of technological advancement 
but  first  and  foremost  by  peace  and  prosperity.  Even 
the  smallest  opportunity  for  peace  must  be  cherished 
and nurtured. From its long struggle for freedom and 
independence, Viet Nam has a profound understanding 
of the value of peace, equality, self-determination, the 
right  to  the  pursuit  of  happiness  and  the  democratic 
values  extolled  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
The voices of small nations and the aspirations of the 
disadvantaged  must  be  respected,  heard  and  shared. 
That  is  the  foundation  for  a  sustainable  and  inclusive 
development  that  leaves  no  one  behind.  That  is  the 
foundation for social stability, which is needed to ensure 
the rights of every person and harness their creativity.
Today  it  is  vital  that  the  United  Nations  engage 
in  strong  and  comprehensive  reforms,  improving  its 
effectiveness,  democracy  and  transparency,  so  as  to 
better fulfil its indispensable role in leading efforts to 
address global challenges. As quoted by the Secretary-
General  in  his  opening  remarks  (see  A/73/PV.6),  the 
late Secretary-General Kofi Annan once said:
“[W]e  share  a  common  destiny.  We  can  master  it 
only if we face it together. And that, my friends, is 
why we have the United Nations.” (see SG/SM/7262)
That is also the reason why, immediately after the 
establishment of the Vietnamese State on 2 September 
1945,  the  beloved  late  President  of  the  Vietnamese 
people,  Ho  Chi  Minh,  submitted  a  request  for 
membership of the United Nations in January 1946.
I  ask  now  what  we  want  the  United  Nations  to 
be.  In  answering  that  question,  we  must  applaud  the 
reform  proposals 
that  Secretary-General  Guterres 
has  initiated,  particularly  on  repositioning  the  United 
Nations development system. I propose that the United 
Nations strengthen cooperation with the various regions 
of the world, particularly in terms of United Nations-
ASEAN  high-level  cooperation  mechanisms,  which 
further highlight the role of the United Nations within 
ASEAN and vice versa.
Viet  Nam  takes  pride  in  being  an  active  member 
of  the  United  Nations.  Ours  is  a  foreign  policy  of 
independence,  self-reliance,  peace,  cooperation  and 
development,  and  multilateralism  and  diversification 
in our foreign relations, as well as active and engaged 
international integration. With that policy, we hope to 
make greater contributions to the creation of multilateral 
mechanisms  and 
the  common 
responsibilities  of  the  international  community.  For 
instance,  Viet  Nam  has  dispatched  a  level-2  field 
hospital to the United Nations Mission in South Sudan.
its 
More  recently,  Viet  Nam  has  submitted 
the 
candidacy  for  non-permanent  membership  of 
Security Council for the 2020-2021 term. I would like 
the  fulfilment  of 
48/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
to express my heartfelt gratitude to the 53 countries of 
the Asia-Pacific States Group for endorsing Viet Nam 
as the sole candidate of the Group, and to many others 
for their extensive support for our candidature so far. In 
this most prestigious forum, I would like, on behalf of 
the Vietnamese Government and people, to call for, and 
very much hope to receive, the support of all Member 
States. Viet Nam is committed to being an active and 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community 
and the United Nations.
We  have  every  reason  to  believe  that  given 
our  global  partnership,  solidarity  and  high  level  of 
commitment,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  will 
succeed, showing that we can live up to the aspirations 
of  all  humankind  for  a  world  of  peace,  equality  and 
sustainable  development.  In 
the 
seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly  be  a 
resounding success.
that  spirit,  may 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Nguyen  Xuan  Phuc,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime 
Minister and Minister of Defence, Economic 
Growth and Job Creation of Jamaica
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
of  Defence,  Economic  Growth  and  Job  Creation 
of Jamaica.
Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime Minister and Minister 
of Defence, Economic Growth and Job Creation of 
Jamaica, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Defence,  Economic  Growth 
and  Job  Creation  of  Jamaica,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Holness  (Jamaica):  I  warmly  congratulate 
Ms. Espinosa Garcés on her election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session. 
Of  the  four  women  who  have  served  as  President 
over  the  years,  she  is  the  first  from  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean.  Jamaica  is  especially  pleased  that 
this  honour  has  been  conferred  on  such  an  eminent 
appointee  from  our  region.  We  also  share  her  desire 
to  see  a  better  gender  balance  in  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly in the years ahead. She can be 
assured of Jamaica’s full support during her tenure.
The  chosen  theme  for  this  session  resonates  well 
with  us.  It  is  imperative  that  we  make  the  United 
Nations relevant to all people through global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies.
This  year  it  has  been  a  decade  since  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  manifested  itself  in 
2008.  We  are  greatly  encouraged  by  reports  from 
international development partners that global growth 
has  improved  and  unemployment  has  declined  to  its 
lowest since the crisis. We are, however, mindful that 
among  developing  economies,  including  small  island 
developing States such as mine, growth prospects are 
becoming more uneven.
We  remain  vulnerable  to  a  gamut  of  social, 
economic,  environmental,  financial  and  trade-related 
hazards,  from  within  and  beyond  our  borders.  In 
that  context,  Jamaica’s  quest  to  achieve  inclusive  and 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  meaningful  job 
creation  has  encountered  challenges.  Ten  years  on, 
we still face the vagaries of an uncertain and at times 
volatile  global  economic  environment.  Together  with 
persistent  challenges  linked  to  climate  change  and 
more frequent intense weather events, those problems 
all impact the pace of our development.
Notwithstanding 
the  multiple  challenges 
that 
confront  us  individually  or  collectively,  Jamaica  is 
developing the social and political consensus it needs 
to  pursue  policies  that  will  secure  our  economic 
independence.  In  the  past  decade,  we  have  engaged 
in  deep  structural  reform  of  our  economy,  reduced 
our  debt  profile  from  its  previous  very  high  level, 
transformed our energy sector and increased our social 
support  for  the  most  vulnerable.  What  has  been  the 
result? Our sovereign ratings and outlook have moved 
from negative to positive.
Jamaica  is  not  sitting  and  waiting  for  the  world 
to  save  it.  As  a  small  island  developing  State  with 
numerous  challenges,  we  are  taking  our  destiny  into 
our  own  hands.  Ultimately,  we  believe  that  economic 
independence will secure our resilience. Nevertheless, 
we continue to strengthen traditional partnerships and 
18-30067
49/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
build  new  ones  with  like-minded  countries  around 
the world that see the global benefits generated when 
countries big and small, rich and poor, work together to 
solve issues too big for any of us to solve alone.
This  year,  Jamaica  was  pleased  to  be  invited  to 
represent  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
at  outreach  sessions  of  the  Group  of  Seven  and  the 
Summit  of  the  BRICS  group  of  Brazil,  Russia,  India, 
China  and  South  Africa.  We  have  also  represented 
CARICOM  throughout  the  year  at  meetings  of  the 
Group  of  20  under  the  Argentine  presidency.  Those 
forums  represent  extremely  influential  groupings  of 
countries. Jamaica believes that such groupings provide 
a unique opportunity, working alongside international 
development partners, to address the problems faced by 
weaker economies across the globe. Jamaica therefore 
welcomes  the  opportunity  to  share  perspectives  with 
our  stronger  economic  partners  to  ensure  that  they 
gain an understanding of the risks that we face in our 
region  of  small  developing  States,  most  of  which  are 
island States.
Jamaica stands ready to continue working on how 
we  can  transform  global  thinking  and  together  find 
effective solutions within a fair, rules-based multilateral 
system  that  is  supportive  of  policies  that  seek  to 
ensure the emergence and empowerment of small and 
developing States, truly leaving no country — and no 
one — behind.
Our  concerted  action  must  embody  effective 
strategies to bolster the global financial system through 
a  robust  global  campaign  to  identify  funding  for  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  resilience  and  adaptation  measures 
to  address  the  devastating  effects  of  climate  change 
and  natural  disasters.  Jamaica  and  our  CARICOM 
brothers and sisters do not have the luxury of engaging 
in  a  philosophical  debate  on  whether  or  not  climate 
change  is  real.  The  issue  is  existential  for  us.  Major 
storms are no longer uncommon; they have given way 
to superstorms. They are stronger and more frequent. 
Every  year,  the  Caribbean  region,  running  right  up 
to  the  south-eastern  coast  of  the  United  States  of 
America, lives in fear for five months — five months of 
hoping that the devastation that was wreaked on North 
Carolina, Antigua and Barbuda, Texas and Grenada is 
not visited upon them this year.
Have  Member  States  seen  what  has  happened  to 
Dominica? The disaster wreaked by those superstorms 
is  the  closest  thing  that  we  can  imagine  or  compare 
to a nuclear event. After four hours of one hurricane, 
Dominica lost most of its gross domestic product (GDP). 
The people of that small island are still recovering today.
As  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  2015-2030  (A/73/268)  confirms,  last 
year we witnessed the costliest North Atlantic hurricane 
season  yet,  with  losses  estimated  at  $229  billion. 
Furthermore,  the  economic  cost  of  climate-related 
disasters globally was $320 billion.
With special reference to the issue of climate change, 
I  was  particularly  honoured  by  the  invitation  from 
Secretary-General Guterres to join him and President 
Macron  of  France  in  leading  a  special  initiative  to 
mobilize funds committed at the Copenhagen Summit 
in  2009  to  the  amount  of  $100  billion  per  year  until 
2020.  We  are  only  two  years  away  from  the  deadline 
but as of today we are nowhere near the target. We must 
therefore galvanize an effective mobilization campaign. 
Against that background, my delegation looks forward 
to  the  climate  change  summit  to  be  convened  by  the 
Secretary-General  in  2019.  More  specifically,  I  am 
also  personally  committed  to  working  assiduously  to 
strengthen momentum aimed at securing the promised 
resources  to  address  climate-related  issues,  which 
affect all of us.
Many  of 
impede 
our  ability  to  narrow  the  persistent  income  gap 
between  developing  and  advanced  economies  can  be 
addressed  through  the  successful  implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Global 
estimates of the scale of the SDGs financing gap run on 
the order of from $5 trillion to $7 trillion per annum. 
Meaningful progress in that regard will require us to tap 
into various sources of funding. I cannot overstate the 
importance of including innovative ways of mobilizing 
private-sector financing.
the  structural  factors 
that 
In  addition,  several  small 
island  developing 
States  like  Jamaica  are  deemed  to  have  graduated  to 
middle-income status primarily by virtue of their GDP 
per capita. Many of them, however, are highly indebted 
and vulnerable. High debt ratios constrain our ability to 
secure domestic fiscal resources at a reasonable cost for 
the implementation of national development goals. The 
reality  is  that  even  though  many  have  made  progress 
50/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
in  reducing  levels  of  extreme  poverty,  several  of  our 
broader development efforts have stalled.
We  therefore  highly  commend  the  work  of  the 
Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean,  which  has  affirmed  the  importance  of 
complementing  the  per-capita  income  criterion  by 
addressing  structural  gaps  that  retard  development 
prospects  for  middle-income  countries.  Accordingly, 
I  am  reiterating  my  call  for  international  financial 
institutions  to  address  that  persistent  problem  known 
as  the  middle-income  trap.  We  believe  that  a  special 
initiative for highly indebted middle-income countries 
could  provide  the  framework  for  the  type  of  support 
that those countries require. It is our great hope that the 
United  Nations  high-level  meeting  on  middle-income 
countries,  scheduled  for  later  this  year,  will  give  its 
fullest  consideration  to  those  matters  and  to  ways 
in  which  the  United  Nations  system  can  provide 
better support.
In  the  interim,  Jamaica  continues  to  work  with 
partners  like  Canada  to  provide  a  platform  where 
countries can engage directly with actors in the private 
sector, development finance institutions and regulators. 
Our goal is to forge collaborative partnerships between 
United  Nations  Member  States  and  the  private  sector 
in order to determine practical, solution-oriented ways 
of  securing  new  and  long-term  capital  investment, 
utilizing a mix of public, private and blended financing 
to implement the SDGs.
Even as we diligently seek financing for sustainable 
development,  we  are  mindful  that  we  live  in  a  world 
where  international  peace  and  security  are  under 
continued  threat.  The  world  has  witnessed  several 
terrorist attacks and is grappling with a range of conflicts 
that  appear  intractable.  The  Secretary-General  has 
therefore appropriately emphasized conflict prevention 
as  well  as  promoting  a  new  disarmament  agenda.  As 
he has often said, we must confront issues concerning 
peace  and  security  along  a  peace  continuum,  from 
prevention,  conflict  resolution  and  peacekeeping  to 
peacebuilding and sustainable long-term development.
Jamaica  is  especially  interested  in  the  efforts  to 
build  a  secure  environment  by  combating  the  illicit 
traffic and trade in small arms and light weapons. We 
have  made  significant  national  institutional  changes, 
undertaken policy enhancements and adopted legislative 
amendments in the areas of security and justice in our 
own  country.  We  now  look  forward  to  working  with 
other  Member  States,  the  United  Nations  system  and 
partners at all levels to ensure that the progress we have 
made is sustainable.
Societies  function  best  when  an  inclusive  global 
environment is created where no one feels left behind. 
The implementation of the SDGs must be people-centred. 
Embargoes and other financial and economic barriers 
must not become tools aimed at preventing people such 
as our neighbours the citizens of the Republic of Cuba 
from attaining their rightful development goals. Jamaica 
continues to call for a lifting of the embargoes on that 
country. We also believe that it is important to support 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special 
Envoys  in  pursuing  the  political  processes  related  to 
situations  such  as  those  in  the  Western  Sahara,  Syria 
and Myanmar.
As  we  prepare  to  commemorate  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  let  us  continue  to  be  mindful  of  the  many 
among  us  who  consistently  face  discrimination  in 
various  forms.  Jamaica  has  been  at  the  forefront  of 
international human rights efforts, having been the first 
country  to  incorporate  human  rights  into  its  foreign-
policy strategy, a principle that we guard fiercely. We 
will  never  lose  sight  of  the  responsibility  to  promote 
and  protect  the  interests  of  the  vulnerable.  We  are 
especially  keen  to  ensure  that  our  women,  children, 
persons living with disabilities, our elderly and young 
people can make meaningful contributions to a safe and 
prosperous society and reap its benefits. Jamaica will 
shortly become a member of the Economic and Social 
Council,  which  is  currently  presided  over  by  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines.  Our  term  of  office  will 
coincide  with  what  promises  to  be  a  momentous  year 
for that body. We are committed to advancing the work 
of the Council, including during its High-level Political 
Forum on Sustainable Development.
Societies  are  not  sustainable  without  healthy 
citizens.  As  a  region  that  has  been  severely  affected 
by  non-communicable  diseases,  we  in  the  Caribbean 
are actively promoting and implementing measures to 
reverse that trend by encouraging health and wellness. 
I  felt  truly  energized  as  I  joined  my  CARICOM 
colleagues 
launching  Caribbean 
Moves,  a  region-wide  initiative  aimed  at  raising 
awareness and increasing physical activity among our 
young people, as well as those who are not so young. 
We  look  forward  to  building  on  the  outcomes  of  the 
high-level meeting that has been convened this week on 
this  morning 
in 
18-30067
51/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
non-communicable diseases. Jamaica will also support 
ongoing  actions  to  combat  tuberculosis  and  promote 
universal health coverage.
The  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  has 
challenged us to ensure that the United Nations remains 
a beacon of hope for each citizen across the globe. To 
that end, the United Nations must be responsive to an 
ever-changing and unpredictable world if it is to remain 
relevant and effective. The Secretary-General is correct 
in stating in his report on the work of the Organization 
that
“one  of  the  most  valuable  assets  of  the  United 
Nations is its capacity to operate as a convener of 
people, a proponent of ideas, a catalyst for action 
and a driver of solutions.” (A/73/1, para. 1)
For  that  reason,  we  remain  steadfast  in  our  support 
of efforts to reform the United Nations. We commend 
the Secretary-General’s actions in pressing for reform 
of  the  peace  and  security  architecture  and  the  United 
Nations  development  system  and  its  management  and 
operational  structure.  Of  course,  we  are  ever-mindful 
of the words of our recently departed former Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan,  a  stalwart  of  multilateral 
diplomacy, that no reform of the United Nations will be 
complete without reform of the Security Council.
Our  global  alliance  comprises  193  sovereign 
States, but there is no denying the fact that we are all 
interdependent.  A  joint  and  multifaceted  response  is 
required to surmount the myriad hurdles ahead of us, 
for it is only through collaboration that we can build our 
societies  and  secure  our  common  future.  Our  legacy 
must be one that uplifts and inspires. Let that therefore 
be  our  mandate  for  the  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  of  Defence,  Economic  Growth  and  Job 
Creation of Jamaica for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime Minister and Minister 
of Defence, Economic Growth and Job Creation of 
Jamaica, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Jacinda Ardern, Prime Minister 
and  Minister  for  Arts,  Culture  and  Heritage, 
and  National  Security  and  Intelligence  of  New 
Zealand
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Arts, Culture and Heritage, and National Security and 
Intelligence of New Zealand.
Ms. Jacinda Ardern, Prime Minister and Minister 
for  Arts,  Culture  and  Heritage,  and  National 
Security  and  Intelligence  of  New  Zealand,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming Her Excellency Ms. Jacinda Ardern, Prime 
Minister and Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage, 
and National Security and Intelligence of New Zealand, 
and inviting her to address the Assembly.
Ms.  Ardern  (New  Zealand):  E  nga  mana  nul  o 
nga  whenua  o  te  ao/Tena  koutou  katoa/Nei  ra  te  reo 
mihl  maioha  o  Aotearoa/Tena  tatau  i  nga  kaupapa 
korero/Ka  arahina  e  tatau/Me  te  ngakau  pono/Me  te 
kotahitanga o te tangata.
My  opening  remarks  were  in  Te  Reo  Maori,  the 
language  of  the  indigenous  people  of  Aotearoa  New 
Zealand. As is tradition, I acknowledged those who are 
here, why we are here and the importance of our work. 
It seems a fitting place to start.
As a leader attending my first General Assembly, 
I  am  struck  by  the  power  and  potential  that  resides 
here.  In  New  Zealand  we  have  always  been  acutely 
aware  of  that.  We  are  a  remote  nation  at  the  bottom 
of the South Pacific. It takes three hours to reach our 
nearest neighbours by plane, and anywhere that takes 
less than 12 hours is considered close. I have no doubt, 
though, that our geographic isolation has contributed to 
our values.
We  are  a  self-deprecating  people.  We  are  not 
ones  for  status.  We  will  celebrate  the  local  people 
who  volunteer  at  their  sports  clubs  as  much  as  we 
will  celebrate  successful  entrepreneurs.  Our  empathy 
and  strong  sense  of  justice  are  matched  only  by  our 
pragmatism.  We  are,  after  all,  a  country  made  up  of 
two  main  islands,  one  simply  named  North  and  the 
other South. For all of that, our isolation has not made 
us insular. In fact, our engagement with the world has 
helped shape who we are.
52/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
I am a child of the 1980s, a period in New Zealand’s 
history  where  we  did  not  just  observe  international 
events, we challenged them. Whether it was apartheid 
in South Africa or nuclear testing in the Pacific, I grew 
up learning about my country and who we were by the 
way that we reacted to international events. Whether it 
was taking to the streets or changing our laws, we have 
seen ourselves as members of a community, one that we 
have a duty to use our voice within.
I am an incredibly proud New Zealander, but much 
of that pride has come from being a strong and active 
member  of  our  international  community,  not  in  spite 
of it. At the heart of that international community has 
been this place. Emerging from a catastrophic war, we 
have  collectively  established  —  through  convention, 
charters and rules — a set of international norms and 
human  rights.  All  of  these  are  an  acknowledgement 
that  we  are  not  isolated,  that  Governments  do  have 
obligations to their people and to one another and that 
our actions have a global effect.
In  1945,  New  Zealand’s  Prime  Minister  Peter 
Fraser  said  that  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
offered perhaps a last opportunity to work in unison to 
realize the hope in the hearts of all of us, for a peace 
that would be real, lasting and worthy of human dignity. 
None of those founding principles should be consigned 
to  the  history  books.  In  fact,  given  the  challenges 
we  face  today  and  how  truly  global  they  are  in  their 
nature  and  impact,  the  need  for  collective  action  and 
multilateralism  has  never  been  clearer.  And  yet,  for 
all  of  that,  the  debate  and  dialogue  we  hear  globally 
is not centred on the relevance and importance of our 
international  institutions.  Instead,  we  find  ourselves 
having  to  defend  their  very  existence.  That  surely 
leaves us all with the questions of how we got here and 
how we get out.
If anything unites us politically in this place right 
now it is this: globalization has had a massive impact 
on  our  nations  and  the  people  we  serve.  While  that 
impact has been positive for many, for others it has not. 
The  transitions  our  economies  have  made  have  often 
been  jarring  and  the  consequences  harsh.  Alongside 
unprecedented  global  economic  growth,  we  are  still 
seeing  a  growing  sense  of  isolation,  dislocation  and 
insecurity and the erosion of hope. As politicians and 
Governments, we all have choices in how we respond 
to  those  challenges.  We  can  use  the  environment  to 
blame nameless and faceless others, feed the sense of 
insecurity and retreat into greater levels of isolationism, 
or we can acknowledge the problems we have and seek 
to fix them.
In  New  Zealand,  going  it  alone  is  not  an  option. 
Aside  from  our  history,  we  are  also  a  trading  nation, 
and  proudly  so,  but  even  without  those  founding 
principles,  there  are  not  just  questions  of  nationhood 
to consider. There are generational demands on us too. 
It should hardly come as a surprise that we have seen 
a global trend of young people showing dissatisfaction 
with our political systems and calling on us to do things 
differently. Why would they not, when they themselves 
have had to adapt so rapidly to a changing world?
Within a few short decades, we now have a generation 
that  will  grow  up  more  connected  than  ever  before. 
Digital transformation will determine whether the jobs 
they are training for will even exist in two decades. In 
education or the job market, they will not just compete 
with their neighbours but their neighbouring countries. 
This generation is a borderless one, at least in a virtual 
sense, and its members increasingly see themselves as 
global  citizens.  As  their  reality  changes,  they  expect 
that ours will too, that we will see and understand our 
collective impact and that we will change the way we 
use our power.
If  we  are  looking  for  an  example  of  where  the 
next  generation  is  calling  on  us  to  make  that  change, 
we  need  look  no  further  than  climate  change.  Two 
weeks ago, Pacific Island leaders gathered together at 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum.  It  was  at  that  meeting,  in 
the  small  island  nation  of  Nauru,  that  climate  change 
was  declared  the  single  biggest  threat  to  security  in 
the Pacific. Please, just think about that for a moment. 
Of all the challenges we debate and discuss, rising sea 
levels present the single biggest threat to our region.
For those who live in the South Pacific, the impacts 
of climate change are not academic, or even arguable. 
They  are  watching  the  sea  levels  rise,  the  extreme 
weather  events  increase  and  the  impact  that  has  on 
their water supply and food crops. We can talk all we 
like  about  the  science  and  what  it  means  and  what 
temperature rises we need to limit in order to survive, 
but there is a grinding reality in hearing people from 
a  Pacific  island  talk  about  where  the  sea  was  when 
they were children and the potential loss of their entire 
village now that they are adults.
Our  action  in  the  wake  of  that  global  challenge 
remains  optional,  but  the  impact  of  inaction  does 
not.  Nations  like  Tuvalu,  the  Marshall  Islands  or 
18-30067
53/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
Kiribati  —  small  countries  that  have  contributed  the 
least to global climate change — are suffering, and will 
suffer, the full force of a warming planet. If my Pacific 
neighbours do not have the option of opting out of the 
effects of climate change, why should we be able to opt 
out  of  taking  action  to  stop  it?  Any  disintegration  of 
multilateralism and any undermining of climate-related 
targets and agreements are not interesting footnotes in 
geopolitical history. They are catastrophic.
In  New  Zealand  we  are  determined  to  play  our 
part. We will not issue any further offshore oil and gas 
exploration permits. We have set a goal of 100 per cent 
renewable  energy  generation  by  2035,  established  a 
green infrastructure fund to encourage innovation and 
rolled out an initiative to plant 1 billion trees over the 
next 10 years. Those plans are unashamedly ambitious. 
The  threat  that  climate  change  poses  demands  it.  But 
we represent less than 0.2 per cent of global emissions. 
That  is  why,  as  a  global  community,  not  since  the 
inception of the United Nations has there been a greater 
example  than  climate  change  of  the  importance  of 
collective  action  and  multilateralism.  It  should  be  a 
rallying cry for all of us.
Yet there is a hesitance that we can ill afford and a 
calculation of personal cost and self-interest. But that 
is  not  the  only  challenge  where  domestic  self-interest 
is  the  first  response  and  where  an  international  or 
collective approach has been diluted at best, or rejected 
at  worst.  But  it  would  be  both  unfair  and  naive  to 
argue that retreating to our own borders and interests 
has meant turning our backs on a perfect system. The 
international  institutions  that  we  have  committed  to 
have not been perfect. But they can be fixed.
That  is  why  the  challenge  I  want  to  issue  today 
is  this:  together,  we  must  rebuild  and  recommit  to 
multilateralism.  We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to 
work as a global community. We must rediscover our 
shared  belief  in  the  value,  rather  than  the  harm,  of 
connectedness.  We  must  demonstrate  that  collective 
international action not only works but is in all of our 
best interests. We must show the next generation that 
we are listening and have heard them.
But  if  we  are  truly  going  to  take  on  a  reform 
agenda, we must acknowledge the failings that have led 
us to this crossroads. International trade, for instance, 
has  helped  bring  millions  of  people  out  of  poverty 
around the world. But some have felt their standard of 
living  slide.  We  in  New  Zealand  have  ourselves  seen 
the  hesitancy  around  trade  agreements  within  our 
own population. The correct response is not to repeat 
the  mistakes  of  the  past  and  be  seduced  by  the  false 
promises of protectionism. Rather, we must all work to 
ensure that the benefits of trade are distributed fairly 
across our societies.
We cannot rely on international institutions to do 
that, in the same way that we cannot blame them if they 
have not delivered those benefits. It is incumbent on us 
to build productive, sustainable and inclusive economies 
and demonstrate to our peoples that, when done right, 
international  economic  integration  can  make  us  all 
better off. If we want to ensure that everyone is better 
off, surely we should start with the most vulnerable.
We 
in  New  Zealand  have  set  ourselves  an 
ambitious  goal.  We  want  to  be  the  best  place  in  the 
world  to  be  a  child.  It  is  hardly  the  stuff  of  hard  and 
fast measures — after all, how are play and a feeling 
of  security  and  happiness  measured?  But  we  can 
measure  material  deprivation  and  poverty,  and  so  we 
will. Moreover, we are making it a law that we report on 
those numbers every single year alongside our budgets. 
What better way is there to hold ourselves to account, 
and what better group to do that for than children?
But  if  we  are  focused  on  nurturing  that  next 
generation,  we  equally  have  to  worry  about  what  it 
is  that  we  are  handing  down  to  them,  including  our 
environment.  In  the  Maori  language  there  is  a  word 
that captures the importance of that role, kaitiakitanga, 
which means guardianship. That is the idea that we have 
been entrusted with our environment and have a duty 
to  care  for  it.  For  us,  that  has  meant  taking  action  to 
address degradation, such as setting standards to make 
our rivers swimmable, reducing waste and phasing out 
single-use  plastic  bags,  right  through  to  eradicating 
predators and protecting our biodiversity. The race to 
grow our economies and increase wealth makes us all 
the poorer if it comes at the cost of our environment. 
We in New Zealand are determined to prove that it does 
not have to be that way. But those are all actions and 
initiatives that we can take domestically that ease the 
blame  and  pressure  on  our  international  institutions. 
That does not mean they do not need fixing.
At the heart of the multilateral system, the United 
Nations  must  lead  the  way.  We  strongly  support  the 
Secretary-General’s reform efforts to make the United 
Nations more responsive, effective and modernized so 
that  it  is  capable  of  dealing  with  today’s  challenges. 
54/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
We  encourage  him  to  be  ambitious,  and  we  stand 
with  him  in  that  ambition.  But  ultimately  it  is  up  to 
us,  the  Member  States,  to  drive  change  here  at  the 
United  Nations.  That  includes  reforming  the  Security 
Council.  If  we  want  the  Council  to  fulfil  its  purpose 
of  maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  its 
practices must be updated so that it is not hamstrung by 
the use of the veto.
New  thinking  will  also  be  needed  if  we  are  to 
achieve  the  vision  encapsulated  in  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). In New Zealand we have 
sought  to  embed  the  principles  behind  the  SDGs  in 
a  new  living-standards  framework  that  is  guiding 
policymaking and the management of our resources. We 
remain absolutely committed to supporting the rollout 
of  the  SDGs  alongside  international  partners  through 
a  significant  increase  in  our  official  development 
assistance budget.
But  revitalizing  our 
international  rules-based 
system is not just about the mechanics of how we work 
together.  It  also  means  renewing  our  commitment  to 
our values. The Charter of the United Nations recalls 
that  the  Organization  was  formed  to  save  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war, which after two 
world wars had brought untold sorrow to humankind. If 
we forget that history and the principles that drove the 
creation of the United Nations, we will be doomed to 
repeat the mistakes of the past.
In  an  increasingly  uncertain  world  it  is  more 
important than ever that we remember the core values 
on which the United Nations was built — that all people 
are equal, that all are entitled to have their dignity and 
human  rights  respected  and  that  we  must  strive  to 
promote social progress and better standards of life in 
larger freedom. We must consistently hold ourselves to 
account on each one.
In addition to renewing that commitment, though, 
we  must  acknowledge  where  accountability  must 
continue, and that is especially the case when it comes 
to equality. So many gains have been made, and each 
is worthy of celebration. In New Zealand we have just 
marked the 125th year since women were granted the 
right to vote. We were the first country in the world to 
do so. As a girl I never grew up believing that my gender 
would  stand  in  the  way  of  my  achieving  whatever  I 
wanted in life. I am, after all, not the first but the third 
female Prime Minister of New Zealand.
But for all of that, we still have a gender pay gap 
and an overrepresentation of women in low-paid work 
and  as  victims  of  domestic  violence.  And  we  are  not 
alone. It seems surprising that in this modern age we 
should  have  to  recommit  to  gender  equality,  but  we 
do.  I  for  one  will  never  celebrate  the  gains  we  have 
made  for  women  domestically  while  internationally 
other  women  and  girls  experience  a  lack  of  the  most 
basic opportunities and dignity. #MeToo must become 
#WeToo. We are all in this together.
I accept that the list of demands, whether domestic 
or international, on all of us is long. We are operating 
in challenging times. We face what we in New Zealand 
would call wicked problems, ones that are intertwined 
and  interrelated.  Perhaps  then  it  is  time  to  step  back 
from the chaos and ask what we want. It is in that space 
that  we  will  find  simplicity,  the  simplicity  of  peace, 
prosperity and fairness.
If  I  could  distil  it  into  one  concept  that  we  are 
pursuing  in  New  Zealand  it  is  simple  and  it  is  this: 
kindness.  In  the  face  of  isolationism,  protectionism 
and  racism,  the  simple  concept  of  looking  outwardly 
and beyond ourselves and of kindness and collectivism 
might  be  just  as  good  a  starting  point  as  any.  Let  us 
therefore  start  here,  with  the  institutions  that  have 
served us well in times of need and will do so again.
In  the  meantime,  I  can  assure  everyone  here  that 
New Zealand remains committed to continuing to do its 
part in building and sustaining international peace and 
security;  promoting  and  defending  an  open,  inclusive 
and rules-based international order based on universal 
values;  and  being  pragmatic,  empathetic,  strong  and 
kind. The next generation, after all, deserves no less.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage, and National 
Security  and  Intelligence  of  New  Zealand  for  the 
statement she has just made.
Ms. Jacinda Ardern, Prime Minister and Minister 
for  Arts,  Culture  and  Heritage,  and  National 
Security  and  Intelligence  of  New  Zealand,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
18-30067
55/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
Address  by  Mr.  Ralph  Gonsalves,  Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Finance,  the  Public 
Service,  National  Security,  Legal  Affairs  and 
Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National  Security,  Legal 
Affairs  and  Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines.
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National  Security, 
Legal  Affairs  and  Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Finance,  the  Public  Service, 
National Security, Legal Affairs and Grenadines Affairs 
of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
One decade ago, the world was convulsed by a cataclysmic 
collapse of its economic order. The devastating global 
economic and financial crisis began in the boardrooms 
of greedy banks and spread worldwide, with a rapidity 
that  exposed  the  shortcomings  of  an  unethical  and 
unregulated  international  financial  architecture.  The 
adverse  socioeconomic  impact  of  the  crisis  has  been 
vast and far-reaching, especially for the countries least 
responsible for the genesis of the crisis.
Regrettably,  the  seemingly  self-evident  lessons 
of  that  economic  and  financial  catastrophe  have  been 
distorted  and  manipulated  to  disastrous  effect.  While 
the financial architecture has been quietly reassembled, 
with  little  more  than  ineffectual  cosmetic  changes, 
the  post-crisis  socioeconomic  and  political  landscape 
has  been  radically  reordered.  Economic  difficulties 
have caused most of the major nations to look inward, 
eschewing  the  most  noble  and  beneficial  aspects  of 
global  cooperation.  Craven  demagogues,  clothed  in 
populist  robes,  have  emerged  to  exploit  economic 
hardship  and  fan  the  flames  of  division,  hatred  and 
isolation. In all corners of the globe, the jarring rise of 
illiberal  intolerance  can  be  causally  connected  to  the 
economic crisis and its continuing impact.
Solidarity has been sacrificed on the altar of political 
expediency, illustrating the enduring prescience of the 
late  Kofi  Annan’s  observation  that  when  economic 
conditions are difficult, people tend to be less generous 
and  protect  themselves.  The  question  of  solidarity 
does  not  mean  much  to  them  at  that  time.  We  have 
retreated  from  the  ethos  of  integration,  cooperation 
and  consensus-building  that  not  only  animated  the 
pre-crisis  decade  but  is  absolutely  necessary  to  solve 
the global problems that confront us.
In  a 
technologically  connected, 
increasingly 
educated  and  rapidly  shrinking  global  village,  any 
belated  attempt  to  put  the  genies  of  multilateralism 
and globalization back into their respective bottles is a 
dangerous folly. Walls cannot replace bridges, isolation 
cannot  replace  cooperation  and  clenched  fists  cannot 
shake hands.
The  United  Nations  is  not  without  its  many 
systemic flaws, and the ascendancy of its unprincipled 
antithesis  demands 
those  flaws 
urgently.  However,  after  seven  decades,  the  United 
Nations  remains  the  world’s  only  institution  with  the 
capacity and authority to enable global cooperation for 
our collective ennoblement.
that  we  address 
The  well-chosen  theme  for  this  general  debate 
speaks  to  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations,  global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibility.  It  centres  on 
a  recommitment  to  the  bedrock  foundations  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations:  sovereign  equality, 
non-interference  and  non-intervention,  international 
peace  and  security,  respect  for  international  law  and 
collective cooperation in solving global problems. It is 
precisely  when  times  are  most  tumultuous  and  when 
damaging changes are upon us that principles must be 
most unwavering and fundamental truths must be most 
vigorously upheld.
principles 
of 
The 
non-intervention 
and 
non-interference are of particular importance to small 
island  developing  States.  Lacking  military  might  or 
economic  wealth,  and  constrained  within  narrow 
borders,  we  owe  our  existence  as  nation  States  to  a 
global  recognition  and  respect  for  the  principle  that 
no other nation — large or small, rich or poor, near or 
far — should be allowed to interfere in our sovereign 
affairs or intervene in matters properly resident in our 
domestic jurisdiction. Without strict adherence to those 
tenets,  small  States’  existence  dangles  precariously 
on  the  threads  of  great-Power  intrigue  or  changing 
56/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Because  of  our  undeniable  reliance  on 
perceptions of our strategic significance. Without those 
principles, our international order reverts to barbarism, 
in which the strong are doing what they can and the weak 
merely suffering what they must. That is unacceptable.
that 
cornerstone  of  international  law,  small  States  are 
among its staunchest defenders. Every violation of the 
principle of non-intervention, wherever it may occur, is 
an indirect assault on our own survival. That principle 
is immutable, and no amount of heavy-handed coercion 
or  ham-fisted  inducements  will  cause  us  to  abandon 
our overarching existential interests in pursuit of short-
term  appeasement.  Our  shared  history  of  struggle 
against  colonial  oppression  and  exploitation  informs 
not only our continuing pursuit of reparative justice for 
the victims of native genocide and slavery, but places 
us  in  implacable  opposition  to  any  actions  by  those 
who seek illegally to impose their will on independent 
nations and peoples.
As such, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines stands 
firmly against the continued interventionist assaults on 
the  sovereignty  of  our  neighbours  in  the  Republic  of 
Cuba  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela.  The 
anachronistic economic blockade of Cuba is both illegal 
and unproductive. The time has long since passed for 
its complete repeal. We regret deeply that the fledgling 
rapprochement  between  the  United  States  and  Cuba 
has  stalled,  and  we  call  for  a  resumption  of  mutually 
respectful dialogue between our two friends.
In Venezuela, the democratically elected Government 
has  been  subjected  to  an  unacceptable,  coordinated 
and  intense  external  economic  assault  that  indirectly 
has  also  had  a  debilitating  effect  on  small  Caribbean 
nations,  which  have  had  generous  arrangements  of 
solidarity,  through  the  PetroCaribe  agreements,  for 
example. To be sure, Venezuela has enormous internal 
sociopolitical  challenges,  but  unwarranted  and  illegal 
intervention  is  certainly  counterproductive  to  the 
people’s ongoing quest for peace, democracy and liberty. 
Venezuela  needs  a  peace  and  reconciliation  mission, 
not  a  campaign  of  sanctions,  subversion  and  threats 
of armed intervention. Constructive dialogue between 
and among the contending parties and personalities is 
urgently required.
The  peoples  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
have repeatedly reaffirmed that our region is a zone of 
peace. Our peoples are not the pawns and playthings of 
any nation. Our America and our Caribbean defiantly 
affirm  that.  It  is  a  noise  in  our  blood,  an  echo  in 
our bones.
No international organization is better suited than 
the United Nations to fulfilling its foundational Charter 
mandate  of  achieving  international  cooperation  in 
solving international problems of an economic, social, 
cultural or humanitarian nature. Today, climate change 
is  indisputably  the  defining,  multifaceted  existential 
problem 
that  we  are  collectively  confronting. 
However,  the  prospects  for  an  effective  international 
solution  to  climate  change  are  rapidly  receding.  Our 
carefully  calibrated  climate  accords  are  teetering 
on  the  brink  of  irrelevance,  wounded  not  only  by 
high-profile  withdrawals  but  also  by  cynical  and 
foolhardy  non-compliance  with  voluntary  mitigation 
pledges  that  major  emitters  have  loudly  declared  but 
quietly disregarded.
The  result  of  this  ignoble  hand-wringing  and 
political procrastination is that the world continues to 
burn while its leaders fiddle. In the space of three years, 
our sister island of Dominica was twice devastated, by 
Tropical Storm Erika and Hurricane Irma, with Tropical 
Storm  Isaac  striking  that  island  a  glancing  blow  only 
weeks ago. As I speak, the threat of a storm hangs over 
my country. Beyond the headlines, the story of climate 
change  is  grimly  told  in  daily  experiences  of  floods, 
droughts, landslides, coastal erosion and lost lives and 
livelihoods across our region.
We  can  wait  no  longer.  The  constellation  of 
challenges,  externally  caused,  that  faces  our  small 
States  demands  a  focused  global  response 
that 
recognizes an undoubted small State exceptionalism in 
theory and in practice. The many-sided concept of small 
State  exceptionalism  ought  to  be  placed  at  the  centre 
of  global  discourse  in  order  to  prompt  appropriate 
collective action.
The  rising  seas  and  intensifying  storms  pose  an 
existential  threat  to  small  island  developing  States  in 
particular.  Major  emitters  that  fail  to  set  and  honour 
ambitious  mitigation  pledges  are  committing  a  direct 
act of hostility against small island developing States, 
and  we  ought  to  resist  their  recklessness  in  acting 
against our interests.
Similarly,  the  financing  of  climate  resilience  and 
adaptation  measures  by  our  development  partners 
cannot  be  shoehorned  into  the  same  glacially  slow, 
labyrinthine bureaucratic processes that have stymied 
other cooperation initiatives. Our friends and partners 
18-30067
57/59
A/73/PV.10 
27/09/2018
must recognize the fierce urgency of that unfamiliar and 
unprecedented climate threat and take decisive political 
and  development  action  to  arrest  this  extraordinary 
existential problem. Climate change cannot be handled 
by business-as-usual practices, however tried and true. 
Our  global  climate  accords  have  birthed  entities  with 
the  ostensible  objectives  of  funnelling  and  delivering 
urgently  needed  mitigation  and  adaptation  financing 
to the most vulnerable States. However, those entities 
place  the  promised  support  at  the  centre  of  an 
impenetrable web of unwieldy rules and processes that 
serve only to frustrate those most desperately in need 
of life-saving cooperation.
Similarly,  the  international  commitment  to  the 
Sustainable Development Goals falters on the paucity 
of  tangible  global  effort  to  ensure  their  achievement 
and  timeline.  In  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
the Sustainable Development Goals have been adopted 
and embedded within our national development plans. 
Despite  limited  resources,  we  have  created  both  a 
zero-hunger  trust  fund  and  a  disaster  contingency 
fund,  innovative  and  unique  responses  to  our  own 
sustainable development needs. We have mainstreamed 
and prioritized goals related to clean energy, economic 
growth, sustainability, climate action and biodiversity. 
We  have  chalked  up  home-grown  progress  in  tandem 
with the selfless solidarity of some of our regional and 
global friends and allies, but much more must be done.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  continues  to 
seek  new  avenues  for  people-centred  development 
and economic growth amid rapidly changing realities. 
The  spectre  of  trade  wars  poses  an  immense  threat 
to  our  development  aspirations,  as  does  the  continual 
tightening  of  the  procedural  noose  around  the  throat 
of  our  banking  and  financial-services  industries.  The 
prospect  of  de-risking  and  the  loss  of  correspondent 
banking  relationships  is  not  an  individual  banking  or 
business decision but a clear and present threat to the 
economic viability of many small States. The modern 
manipulation  of  States’  access  to  global  banking  and 
finance  mechanisms,  whether  informed  by  politics, 
stigma  or  indifference,  is  a  flagrant  violation  of  the 
internationally  recognized  right  to  development.  It 
is  imperialism  of  a  most  insidious  kind,  imposed 
facelessly  from  a  distance.  The  United  Nations  must 
urgently confront that grave and gathering menace in a 
coordinated and action-oriented manner.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  also  making 
increasingly  innovative  forays  into  capitalizing  on 
the vast potential of the blue economy, tourism, niche 
agricultural  products  and  our  historical  knowledge  in 
the medical cannabis industry. We seek the cooperation 
of our friends and partners in supporting such initiatives.
The  faith  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  in 
the  principles  and  potential  of  the  United  Nations  is 
manifest  in  its  active  participation  in  all  aspects  of 
this organ. In recent years, we have demonstrated that 
small size is no impediment to impactful contributions 
on the world stage. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
has played a leadership role in the post-financial crisis 
response  of  the  United  Nations,  the  revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly,  Security  Council  reform,  the 
advancement of the law of the sea, small-arms control, 
ambitious measures to combat climate change and the 
global  response  to  non-communicable  diseases.  Most 
recently,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  chaired 
the  Administrative  and  Budgetary  Committee  of  the 
United Nations and currently serves as President of the 
Economic and Social Council.
In  a  similar  manner,  we  feel  the  responsibility  to 
bring  our  unique  perspectives  to  bear  on  the  work  of 
the Security Council. The perspectives of small States, 
including  small  island  developing  States,  have  been 
historically the least heard in the Security Council. As 
threats to international peace and security have evolved 
in  diverse  ways,  so  too  has  the  need  increased  for  a 
diversity of viewpoints on the Security Council. Small 
island States have largely and spectacularly solved the 
challenge  of  forging  peaceful,  harmonious  societies 
amid  many  of  the  social,  ethnic,  political,  historical 
and cultural fissures that traditionally lie at the root of 
many breaches of international peace and security. We 
have confronted those challenges not with a surfeit of 
weapons or dollars, but with mutual respect, dialogue 
and  an  understanding  that  unique  situations  require 
not  static  ideological  solutions,  but  flexibility  and 
innovation geared towards the specificities of the issue 
at hand.
The  need  for  more  of  that  type  of  practical, 
principled pragmatism on the Security Council is self-
evident. It is why the candidacy of Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines has been endorsed by the States members 
of  the  Caribbean  Community  and  why  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines continues to call for reform of the 
membership of the Security Council to reflect modern 
realities and challenges.
58/59 
18-30067
27/09/2018 
A/73/PV.10
Our  pragmatism  affords  us  the  opportunity  to 
see  the  world  as  it  is,  unencumbered  by  historical  or 
ideological blinders. The United Nations, which justly 
counts States with populations as small as 10,000 people 
among  its  Members,  somehow  continues  to  remain 
blind  to  the  23  million  residents  of  Taiwan.  There  is 
simply no principled basis to deny Taiwan the right to 
participate  in  the  work  of  the  specialized  agencies  of 
the United Nations.
The  relevance  of  this  institution  is  rooted  in 
its  responsiveness  to  the  needs  and  challenges  of 
the  peoples  we  collectively  represent.  We  can  and 
must  do  more  to  address  those  needs  in  direct  and 
transformative  ways.  We  must  ever  more  diligently 
work  to  match  noble  intent  with  decisive  action  in 
pursuit of our Charter objectives. Accordingly, we urge 
the practical resolution of the pain and suffering of the 
Palestinians,  the  people  of  Yemen  and  those  afflicted 
by  the  evil  of  terrorism,  whether  State-sponsored  or 
not.  Similarly,  the  madness  of  the  spread  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction  and  the  threat  of  their  use  is  a 
standing affront to humanity, peace and security, and 
therefore  demands  our  continued  collective  response. 
Our  international  agenda  for  corrective  action  also 
includes trafficking in persons, illegal drugs and small 
arms,  refugees  from  ravaged  lands,  violence  against 
women  and  children,  the  growing  scarcity  of  water 
and  food  in  many  nations,  the  war  against  chronic 
non-communicable diseases, the rising tide of religious 
intolerance  in  certain  places  and  the  reunification  of 
families arising from abductions of yesteryear.
The President took the Chair.
We  live  amid  frantic  attempts  in  diverse  quarters 
to  rekindle  the  dying  embers  of  xenophobia  and 
unilateralism  in  pursuit  of  a  past  glory  stuffed  with 
mythology.  But  this  noble  institution  is  the  keeper  of 
a  different  flame.  Our  bedrock  principles  stand  as  an 
open rebuke to those who traffic in base triumphalism 
and  pursue  actions  that  are  fueled  by  both  short 
memories  and  short-sightedness.  Ours  is  a  flame  of 
respect  for  sovereignty,  diversity  of  views,  dialogue, 
peace  and  development.  In  changing  times,  and  amid 
new  challenges,  the  principles  that  fuel  that  flame 
must be zealously defended. As keepers of that flame 
and  as  holders  of  those  principles  in  trust  for  future 
generations,  we  cannot  falter  and  be  found  wanting 
in  the  face  of  reactionary  assaults.  Another  way  is 
possible, and that way, that path, is lit by the timeless 
principles that continue to animate and invigorate the 
best  efforts  of  the  United  Nations.  Long  may  those 
principles  continue  to  guide  our  collective  journey  of 
peace, prosperity and people-centred development.
What,  then,  is  required  of  us?  The  answer  is  as 
timeless as it is wise. What is required of is to do justly, 
to love mercy and to work humbly with our God.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National 
Security, Legal Affairs and Grenadines Affairs of Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National  Security, 
Legal  Affairs  and  Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m.
18-30067
59/59
