United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
34th plenary meeting
Friday, 9 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Ke (Cambodia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 92
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/315)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.19)
The Acting President: Before proceeding, I wish 
to advise the Assembly that the Director General of the 
International Atomic Energy Agency has informed the 
President of the General Assembly that he regrets that 
he is unable to attend today’s meeting to introduce the 
report  of  the  Agency  for  the  year  2017  and  deliver  a 
statement  on  the  developments  that  have  taken  place 
since its publication. His prepared statement has been 
circulated in a letter from the President of the General 
Assembly  and  will  be  issued  as  an  official  document 
(see A/73/315/Add.1).
I now give the floor to the representative of Jordan 
to introduce draft resolution A/73/L.19.
Mr.  Ababneh  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me  to  begin  my  statement  by  expressing  our  deep 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
his  briefing  contained  in  the  statement  that  has  been 
circulated  regarding  the  main  activities  of  the  IAEA 
(see A/73/315/Add.1) and for introducing the Agency’s 
report for 2017 (see A/73/315).
This annual debate is a very important opportunity 
for  the  General  Assembly  to  assess  the  tasks  and 
principal  activities  of  the  IAEA  and  stress  the  great 
importance  that  the  entire  international  community 
attaches to the Agency’s work and its “Atoms for Peace 
and Development” mandate. That is clearly highlighted 
by the report of the IAEA with regard to implementing 
the  safeguards  system;  facilitating  peaceful  uses 
of  nuclear  technology;  ensuring  the  safe  use  of  that 
technology; 
technical  cooperation  and  capacity-
building; and nuclear security and safety. The Agency 
has  managed  to  strike  a  successful  balance  between 
all of those activities, thereby contributing not only to 
consolidating international peace and security but also 
to  achieving  several  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
especially in developing countries.
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, in its capacity 
as the President of the IAEA Board of Governors for this 
year, is pleased to introduce to the General Assembly 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  whose  content 
enjoyed  consensus  from  the  Agency’s  member  States 
following consultations held in Vienna on 16 October. 
It was also supported here in New York in the meeting 
held on 25 October, to which all States Members of the 
United Nations were invited.
The  draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  today 
emanates from a basic requirement set out in the IAEA 
Statute, as well as a cooperation agreement signed by 
the United Nations and the IAEA in 1957. In conformity 
with  the  traditional  practice,  the  text  of  the  draft 
resolution  takes  note  of  the  resolutions  adopted  and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-36857 (E)
*1836857*

A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
decisions  taken  by  the  Agency’s  General  Conference 
during  its  sixty-second  regular  session  and  reiterates 
the strong support of the Member States to the IAEA 
and its continued activities.
We  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will  adopt 
the  draft  resolution  by  consensus  this  year,  thereby 
reflecting  the  importance  of  the  Agency  and  its  role 
as  an 
instrument  and  convergence 
focal point.
international 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Kritikos  (European  Union):  I  have 
the 
honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU).  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina; the European Free Trade Association 
country and member of the European Economic Area 
Liechtenstein;  as  well  as  the  Republic  of  Moldova, 
align themselves with this statement.
We  are  pleased  to  support  the  draft  resolution 
(A/73/L.19)  on  the  report  (see  A/73/315)  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  —  a 
report that once again reaffirms the indispensable role 
of  the  Agency  with  regard  to  the  non-proliferation  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  in  facilitating  the  development 
and practical application of atomic energy for peaceful 
uses,  as  well  as  in  technology  transfer  and  nuclear 
verification,  safety  and  security.  We  also  note  with 
satisfaction the amount of strong support that has been 
expressed for the Agency’s work.
The European Union is fully committed to nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament.  We 
reiterate 
our  firm  support  for  the  full,  complete  and  effective 
implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  as  the  cornerstone  of  the 
international  non-proliferation  regime,  the  essential 
foundation  for  the  pursuit  of  nuclear  disarmament,  in 
accordance with article VI of the NPT, and which we 
regard  as  vital  to  the  further  development  of  nuclear 
energy applications for peaceful purposes. The European 
Union reaffirms its full support for the establishment 
of a zone in the Middle East free of weapons of mass 
destruction and their delivery systems and reiterates its 
readiness to assist in the process leading to that goal.
The  IAEA  safeguards  system  is  a  fundamental 
component  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime 
and plays an indispensable role in the implementation 
of  the  NPT.  We  underline  the  primary  responsibility 
of  the  Security  Council  in  cases  of  non-compliance. 
The  European  Union  further  recognizes  the  serious 
proliferation challenges that continue to be a threat to 
international security and the need to find peaceful and 
diplomatic solutions to them.
The  European  Union  is  determined  to  work  with 
the  international  community  to  preserve  the  Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), an agreement 
unanimously  endorsed  by  the  Security  Council  in 
resolution  2231  (2015).  The  EU  deeply  regrets  the 
withdrawal of the United States from the JCPOA and 
stresses  that  as  long  as  Iran  continues  to  implement 
its  nuclear-related  commitments,  as  confirmed  by  the 
IAEA, the EU will remain committed to the continued 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  nuclear  deal. 
We  call  on  all  parties  to  implement  all  parts  of  the 
JCPOA  fully  and  effectively.  While  welcoming  the 
ongoing implementation, the EU reiterates the need for 
Iran to continue to abide strictly by all its nuclear-related 
commitments  and  to  cooperate  fully  and  in  a  timely 
manner with the IAEA, including by implementing the 
comprehensive safeguards agreement and its additional 
protocol, as well as by providing all requested access. 
In that regard, Iran’s early ratification of the additional 
protocol  is  essential.  The  European  Union  fully 
supports  the  IAEA’s  long-term  mission  of  verifying 
and monitoring Iran’s nuclear-related commitments and 
recalls the importance of ensuring the necessary means 
for the Agency to carry out its role.
The  recent 
talks, 
inter-Korean  high-level 
the 
Panmunjom  Declaration  on  Peace,  Prosperity  and 
Reunification  of  the  Korean  Peninsula  and  the  joint 
statement  issued  following  the  summit  in  Singapore 
between the United States and the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea are positive steps that can contribute 
to easing tensions on the Korean peninsula. While we 
support  those  diplomatic  efforts,  the  European  Union 
urges  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to 
engage  seriously  in  the  follow-on  negotiations  and  to 
take concrete steps to embark on a credible path towards 
complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible  denuclearization 
and  to  maintain  its  declared  suspension  of  testing 
nuclear  weapons  and  ballistic  missiles.  Until  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  takes  those 
towards  denuclearization,  we  will 
concrete  steps 
2/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
continue  to  strictly  enforce  the  existing  sanctions, 
and we call on all States to do the same. We urge the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to comply with 
the relevant Security Council resolutions, to return to 
the NPT and the IAEA safeguards at an early date and 
to sign and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  without  delay.  The  European  Union  continues 
to  attach  the  highest  importance  to  maintaining  an 
essential role for the IAEA in verifying the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  programme  and 
welcomes  and  supports  the  Secretariat’s  efforts  to 
enhance its readiness to do so.
The  European  Union  urges  Syria  to  cooperate 
promptly and transparently with the Agency in order to 
resolve all outstanding issues, including by concluding 
and  implementing  an  additional  protocol  as  soon 
as possible.
The  European  Union  continues  to  call  for  the 
universalization  of 
the  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreement,  together  with  the  additional  protocol, 
without delay. The EU strongly supports the State-level 
concept,  as  well  as  the  further  development  and 
application  of  enhanced  capabilities  for  analytical 
services, 
technologies. 
Furthermore,  the  European  Union  actively  supports 
the Agency’s safeguards system through the European 
Commission  Safeguards  Support  Programme, 
the 
Instrument for Nuclear Safety Cooperation and Member 
State Support Programmes.
information  analysis  and 
The European Union and its member States attach 
the utmost importance to the worldwide implementation 
and  continuing  improvement  of  nuclear  safety.  For 
that  reason,  a  European  Union  directive  has  set  up  a 
European  system  to  ensure  peer  reviews  on  specific 
safety issues at least every six years. The first such peer 
review, dedicated to the issue of the ageing management 
of nuclear power plants and research reactors, has been 
recently  completed.  The  European  Union  has  also 
provided  its  expertise  through  so-called  stress  tests 
in  a  number  of  neighbouring  countries,  with  a  view 
to building a more robust, sustainable and transparent 
nuclear-safety framework worldwide.
The European Union stresses the need to continue 
to  strengthen  nuclear  security  worldwide  in  order  to 
prevent  nuclear  terrorism  and  the  misuse  of  nuclear 
and  radioactive  material.  To  that  end,  we  highlight 
the importance of States becoming party to and fully 
implementing  the  relevant  treaties,  the  Amendment 
to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of 
Nuclear  Material  and  the  International  Convention 
for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism, 
and  we  underline  the  importance  of  Security  Council 
resolutions 1540 (2004) and 2325 (2016). In the context 
of the EU strategy against the proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction, we actively support international 
initiatives  that  contribute  to  strengthening  nuclear 
security.  For  the  period  from  2014  to  2020,  the 
European Union has dedicated more than €100 million 
to the regional Chemical, Biological, Radiological and 
Nuclear Centres of Excellence Initiative. The European 
Union  will  actively  support  the  preparation  of  the 
international conference on nuclear security to be held 
in February 2020.
The European Union strongly supports the central 
role  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  in 
improving  the  global  nuclear  security  framework  by 
strengthening 
international  cooperation,  offering 
advisory  services  and  providing  direct  assistance  to 
member  States.  We  call  on  IAEA  member  States  to 
ensure the availability of sufficient resources for those 
services.  Together  with  its  member  States,  the  EU  is 
among the biggest donors to the IAEA Nuclear Security 
Fund.  The  European  Union  funding  to  the  IAEA  has 
helped the Agency to assist countries in upgrading and 
ensuring the physical protection of selected facilities and 
in improving their national regulatory infrastructure.
The European Union remains firmly committed to 
the  benefits  of  multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear 
fuel cycle and to ensuring that high standards of safety, 
security and safeguards are implemented to protect our 
collective  non-proliferation  interests.  The  European 
Union has supported the IAEA low-enriched uranium 
bank project with approximately €25 million and looks 
forward to its full establishment in 2019.
Finally, the European Union and its member States 
continue to be strong supporters of the IAEA’s Technical 
Cooperation Programme. The EU is the second-largest 
contributor to the Programme. We fully appreciate the 
Agency’s role in promoting the responsible development 
of the peaceful applications of nuclear technology, and 
we  take  positive  note  of  the  fact  that  the  IAEA  has 
continued  to  actively  engage  in  the  global  dialogue 
on the Sustainable Development Goals. The European 
Union supports the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and 
technology, including through technical expertise and 
with  an  average  contribution  of  €15  million  annually. 
The  European  Union  supports  the  peaceful  uses  of 
18-36857
3/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
nuclear  energy  and  technology,  including  through 
technical expertise and with an average contribution of 
€15 million per year.
Ms. Fedorovich (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): On 
behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus, 
I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), for his preparation of the report of the Agency 
for 2017 (see A/73/315).
A focus on sustainable development is an important 
distinguishing  feature  of  international  cooperation 
today.  As  a  founder  nation  of  the  IAEA,  Belarus 
is  pleased  that  the  Agency  is  making  a  significant 
contribution to achieving the Goals outlined in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. We would like to 
emphasize the IAEA’s role in facilitating the peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  and  radiological  technologies.  Their 
development and widespread use helps to solve problems 
in addressing global challenges from energy and food 
security  to  cancer  treatment  and  the  fight  against 
climate  change.  Belarus  wholeheartedly  supports  the 
IAEA’s safeguards system, which is a fundamental part 
of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  and  plays  an 
irreplaceable role in the implementation of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
In our view it is particularly important to ensure that 
the  process  of  improving  the  safeguards  mechanism 
continues to be clear, objective and based on the rights 
and obligations of the parties in accordance with their 
safeguard agreements.
The  IAEA’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
is  the  mechanism  through  which  the  provisions  of 
article IV of the NPT are effectively implemented and 
one  of  the  most  important  aspects  of  the  Agency’s 
implementation  of  the  role  assigned  to  it  with  regard 
to implementing the Treaty. For Belarus, the Technical 
Cooperation Programme has become a concrete source 
of  support  in  solving  problems  of  socioeconomic 
development. With its help, we have been successfully 
dealing  with  issues  of  sustainable  development  in  the 
areas  affected  by  the  Chernobyl  disaster  for  almost 
three  decades.  The  IAEA’s  technical  cooperation  has 
also made a significant contribution to the achievement 
of our national nuclear-medicine programmes.
Belarus  shares  the  view  that  for  the  foreseeable 
future  nuclear  energy  will  keep  its  position  and 
potential  for  development.  We  welcome  the  IAEA’s 
steps  aimed  at  assisting  member  States  in  making 
considered  decisions  regarding  the  establishment  and 
development  of  national  nuclear-energy  programmes. 
The  cooperation  between  Belarus  and  the  IAEA 
in  this  area  has  evolved  since  the  early  days  of  the 
implementation  of  our  national  programme.  We  have 
made  active  use  of  the  entire  range  of  the  Agency’s 
instruments,  from  technical  cooperation  projects  to 
expert missions and peer reviews. The nuclear accidents 
at  Chernobyl  and  Fukushima  have  emphasized  that 
issues  related  to  ensuring  nuclear  safety  are  top 
priorities,  and  we  welcome  the  Agency’s  increasingly 
significant  contribution  to  creating  reliable  nuclear-
safety infrastructure all over the world. We commend 
the  IAEA’s  work  on  strengthening  and  universalizing 
the  relevant  conventions  and 
in  developing  and 
improving  standards  and  technical  documents.  The 
secretariat’s  work  in  providing  advisory  services  and 
conducting  independent  peer  reviews  in  interested 
States is extremely important.
Belarus  supports  draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  on 
the  report  of  the  IAEA,  and  has  sponsored  the  draft 
text in a sign of its support for the Agency’s activities 
in promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and 
strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Mr.  Safronkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  thanks  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report  (see  A/73/315)  on  the  Agency’s  work.  Our 
country was present at the Agency’s creation. We have 
always supported it, and we value its activities during 
the  reporting  period.  We  hope  that  the  IAEA  will 
continue  to  increase  its  efforts  in  the  interests  of  the 
development of atomic energy and technologies all over 
the world and the expansion of international cooperation 
in those areas, while improving and strengthening the 
nuclear-weapon non-proliferation regime.
The  uniqueness  of 
the 
it 
to  be  highly  effective 
IAEA  verification 
mechanism  enables 
in 
monitoring States’ fulfilment of their non-proliferation 
commitments.  One  of  the  central  achievements  in 
that regard is the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
(JCPOA), on the Iranian nuclear programme. To date, 
Iran remains the country that has been most subject to 
verification by the IAEA. The Agency has established 
and  maintained  an  exceedingly  complex  verification 
mechanism  and  is  dealing  effectively  with  the  tasks 
involved,  enabling  it  to  monitor  Tehran’s  fulfilment 
of its obligations under the JCPOA and of its existing 
4/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
safeguards.  The  Director  General’s  reports  regularly 
confirm  that  Tehran  is  meeting  its  obligations  under 
the  JCPOA  in  addition  to  its  implementation  of  the 
Additional  Protocol  to  its  Safeguards  Agreement.  We 
reaffirm  our  firm  commitment  to  the  JCPOA,  which 
represents a carefully calibrated balance of the interests 
of the parties and should be strictly implemented. We 
provide  various  forms  of  support  to  the  Agency  with 
regard  to  Iran,  including  organizing  targeted  training 
courses for IAEA inspectors. We emphasize that we are 
deeply concerned about the irresponsible actions of the 
United States regarding the JCPOA, which are aimed at 
undermining this multilateral international agreement 
supported by the Security Council.
We  welcome  the  emerging  positive  momentum 
with  regard  to  resolving  the  Korean  peninsula’s 
nuclear  problem.  In  the  context  of  the  IAEA,  we 
should  point  out  that  the  Agency’s  mandate  does 
not  permit  its  resources  to  be  used  in  verifying  the 
dismantling  of  nuclear  weapons  or  military  nuclear 
infrastructure.  However,  we  welcome  the  work  of  the 
IAEA  secretariat  in  maintaining  its  readiness  for  a 
resumption of the application of safeguards throughout 
the Korean peninsula.
The Russian Federation is in favour of improving 
the  Agency’s  monitoring  capabilities,  including  in 
future by converting the additional protocols to IAEA 
safeguards  agreements  into  a  universally  recognized 
standard  for  verifying  non-proliferation  obligations. 
Whatever  reforms  of  the  Agency’s  safeguards  system 
are  undertaken,  the  mechanism  for  their  application 
should  continue 
to  be  objective,  depoliticized, 
technically  based,  comprehensible  to  member  States 
and based on the rights and obligations of the parties 
in  accordance  with  their  safeguards  agreements.  An 
unbiased,  objective  approach  to  nuclear  verification 
is a key element in ensuring the stability of the IAEA 
comprehensive  safeguards  system  and  of  the  nuclear-
weapon non-proliferation regime in general.
in 
Russia  actively  participates 
the  Agency’s 
activities  as  a  financial  donor,  including  through 
voluntary  contributions  to  the  IAEA’s  International 
Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles,  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund  and  the 
Nuclear  Security  Fund,  as  well  as  in  support  of  the 
implementation  of  Agency  projects  in  the  area  of 
nuclear infrastructure development. At the moment our 
annual extra-budgetary contributions in support of the 
IAEA are comparable to our payments to the Agency’s 
regular budget.
We  wholeheartedly  support  the  IAEA’s  efforts  in 
the field of technical cooperation and the provision of 
related assistance to developing countries, and, for our 
part,  we  actively  promote  the  development  of  atomic 
energy in other countries. In 2017 and 2018 we signed 
agreements  on  peaceful  nuclear  cooperation  with 
Bangladesh,  Zambia,  Kazakhstan,  Cambodia,  China, 
Paraguay,  the  Sudan,  Tajikistan  and  Uzbekistan.  In 
that regard, I would like to point out that we in Russia 
have  a  functioning  international  centre  for  uranium 
enrichment,  which  we  invite  all  States  developing 
atomic  energy  and  abiding  by  their  non-proliferation 
commitments to participate in. Russia is also building a 
multipurpose fast research reactor at our State Research 
Institute for Nuclear Reactors. We invite all interested 
countries  to  participate  in  our  international  research 
centre at the Institute.
The  Russian  Federation  supports  the  work  of  the 
Agency  in  the  area  of  physical  nuclear  security.  We 
firmly believe that the responsibility for ensuring such 
security on individual States’ territories belongs to the 
States themselves, which should use their discretion in 
determining  the  optimal  parameters  for  their  national 
systems  and  measures.  We  stress  the  IAEA’s  central 
role  in  international  cooperation  on  nuclear  security 
and  its  active  participation  in  organizing  contacts 
and  sharing  experiences  between  interested  States. 
We deem it important to ensure the broadest possible 
participation by States in the international agreements 
on  nuclear  security,  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  and  Nuclear  Facilities 
and  the  International  Convention  for  the  Suppression 
of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  Russia  has  signed 
and  ratified  those  international  agreements,  and  we 
call  on  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accelerate 
their  internal  procedures  for  acceding  to  those  major 
international instruments.
We  emphasize  the  need  for  ensuring  a  cautious 
approach to the IAEA on the part of its member States. 
It  is  important  to  refrain  from  artificial  involvement 
in  the  agenda  of  the  Agency’s  governing  bodies  or 
in  its  activities  in  general  beyond  the  scope  of  its 
Statute,  including  nuclear-disarmament  issues.  Given 
the  importance  of  the  Agency’s  work  in  the  interests 
of  expanding  the  peaceful  use  of  atomic  power  and 
strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime, the 
Russian delegation supports draft resolution A/73/L.19, 
18-36857
5/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
entitled  “Report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency”, and is one of its sponsors.
Mr.  Horne 
(Australia):  Australia  commends 
Director General Amano for his report (see A/73/315) 
on  the  activities  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  and 
its 
co-sponsorship of draft resolution A/73/L.19.
to  continue 
is  pleased 
The report outlines what has been another productive 
year for the IAEA. Australia greatly values the Agency’s 
work  across  nuclear  science  and  technology,  safety, 
security,  safeguards  and  technical  cooperation.  Last 
year  we  celebrated  the  Agency’s  sixtieth  anniversary. 
As we noted then, these themes are just as relevant and 
important  today  as  they  were  at  the  very  beginning. 
Going  forward,  Australia  welcomes 
the  Director 
General’s commitment to championing gender equality 
in particular. We will continue to strongly support and 
advocate  for  efforts  to  increase  the  representation  of 
women  in  technical  areas  and  in  the  Agency’s  senior 
management, particularly through the Group of Friends 
for Women in Nuclear, now established in Vienna.
Australia  remains  a  strong  supporter  of 
the 
transfer of knowledge and expertise through the IAEA 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  and  is  pleased 
to  be  providing  extra-budgetary  contributions  to  the 
Peaceful Uses Initiative. We are proud to be providing 
those  funds  for  the  modernization  of  the  nuclear-
application laboratories at Seibersdorf, Austria, and for 
the renewal project.
Australia  is  firmly  committed  to  nuclear  safety 
and security and this week is undergoing an Integrated 
Regulatory Review Service mission, demonstrating our 
sustained commitment to the international peer review 
system  and  to  continuing  improvement  in  regulating 
nuclear  and  radiation  safety.  That  also  follows  the 
successful  completion  of  a  follow-up  mission  of  the 
International Physical Protection Advisory Service held 
in Australia in November 2017. The IAEA continues to 
play a key coordinating role in assisting Member States 
in  enhancing  nuclear  security.  The  global  importance 
of  nuclear  security  and  of  the  IAEA’s  role  was 
re-emphasized  at  the  IAEA’s  successful  International 
Conference  on  Nuclear  Security  in  December  2016, 
which  attracted  more  than  2,100  participants  from 
139  member  States.  We  look  forward  to  the  next 
Conference, to be held in 2020. We also commend the 
IAEA’s continued outreach on the amended Convention 
on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  and 
Nuclear  Facilities  and  call  on  States  to  make  suitable 
preparations for the Review Conference of the amended 
Convention in 2021.
and 
verifiable 
complete, 
The  Australian  Government  remains  committed 
to 
irreversible 
the 
denuclearization  of  North  Korea.  We  welcome  the 
ongoing  dialogue  between  North  Korea  and  both  the 
Republic of Korea and the United States. We note North 
Korea’s  commitment  to  halting  nuclear  testing  and 
allowing  international  inspections  of  the  Punggye-ri 
nuclear  test  site  and  the  Tongchang-ri  missile  site. 
While  we  see  those  commitments  as  positive,  we 
remain  committed  to  maintaining  pressure  on  North 
Korea until it takes concrete steps towards complying 
with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  on  its 
nuclear and ballistic-missile programmes.
Australia  thanks  Jordan  for  introducing  the  draft 
resolution.  We  look  forward  to  contributing  to  the 
IAEA’s continued successes in the years to come.
Ms. Picco (Monaco) (spoke in French): Let me begin 
by  welcoming  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano’s  reappointment 
as  Director  General  at  the  helm  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  attesting  to  the  trust 
that member States place in his leadership.
As  the  annual  report  (see  A/73/315)  presented 
to  us  today  points  out,  it  is  important  to  recall  the 
Agency’s goal, as stated in article II of its Statute, to 
enlarge,  “the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace, 
health  and  prosperity  throughout  the  world”,  and 
call  attention  to  its  motto  —  “Atoms  for  Peace  and 
Development” — which represents the essential nature 
of its mission in a few words.
In  a  turbulent  world,  where  our  States  are  often 
dealing with a number of simultaneous and cumulative 
challenges, the role of the Agency remains central. On 
the one hand, it must confront security challenges such 
as nuclear proliferation and ensure that State guarantees 
are respected, while on the other, its programmes make 
a  significant  contribution  to  development.  Access  to 
safe,  affordable  and 
low-greenhouse-gas-emission 
energy,  the  use  of  nuclear  techniques  in  agriculture, 
soil  erosion  and  especially  nuclear  applications  in 
health  care  contribute  directly  to  the  achievement  of 
Sustainable Development Goals 7, 2 and 3, respectively. 
So while the general public may not always be aware 
of all of the applications of nuclear technology and the 
positive  contribution  that  peaceful  uses  of  the  atom 
make to daily life, the Agency plays a role as a major 
6/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
guarantor  of  international  security  and  an  important 
factor in sustainable development.
The  Scientific  Forum  held  at  IAEA  headquarters 
in September, this year devoted to the theme “Nuclear 
technology  for  climate:  mitigation,  monitoring  and 
adaptation”, was particularly timely given that climate 
change affects all of us without exception, and certain 
countries with violent intensity. The IAEA’s work can 
help  us  reduce  greenhouse-gas  emissions  and  assess 
the  effects  of  climate  change  through  the  application 
of  nuclear  techniques  for  scientific  research  and 
climate  preservation.  The  Assembly  can  rest  assured 
that  Monaco  will  continue  to  support  the  Agency, 
including through its Programme of Action for Cancer 
Therapy, whose goal is improving the effectiveness of 
radiological  medicine  in  the  fight  against  cancer,  and 
which  has  enjoyed  the  support  of  our  Government 
for  a  decade.  We  also  share  with  the  Agency  a  deep 
commitment  to  science  and  to  cooperation,  which 
should  help  us  to  respond  to  States’  aspirations  to 
contribute  to  sustainable  development  and  improve 
their citizens’ quality of life.
In  the  area  of  marine  scientific  research,  for 
example,  the  Agency  has  developed  new  analytical 
methods and conducted environmental studies aimed at 
improving our understanding of the movements of toxic 
contaminants  —  mercury,  lead  and  so  forth  —  and 
their  effects  on  coastal  and  marine  ecosystems.  The 
cooperation  between  Monaco  and  the  Agency  dates 
back to 1961, when the IAEA International Laboratory 
of  Marine  Radioactivity,  the  first  of  its  kind,  was 
established  within 
the  Musée  océanographique 
de  Monaco.  The  laboratories  set  up  in  Monaco 
were  initially  specifically  dedicated  to  the  marine 
environment  and  carried  out  scientific  research  both 
in  the  laboratory  and  on  the  world’s  oceans  and  seas 
with a view to assessing the impact of human activities 
on  marine  species  and  gathering  data.  Monaco  has 
hosted  the  IAEA  Environment  Laboratories  at  their 
current  location,  employing  more  than  40  people,  for 
the past 20 years. That anniversary was celebrated in 
the  Principality  last  month,  with  the  Deputy  Director 
General  of  the  IAEA  and  Head  of  the  Department  of 
Nuclear Sciences and Applications present.
In  2012,  the  Agency  also  established  the  Ocean 
Acidification International Coordination Centre within 
the  Environment  Laboratories  on  the  same  premises. 
As  a  direct  consequence  of  the  increase  of  carbon 
dioxide  in  the  atmosphere,  ocean  acidification  has  a 
significant and devastating impact on the many marine 
species that form a shell or a calcareous skeleton, such 
as crustaceans and corals.
The  IAEA,  its  International  Coordination  Centre 
and the Scientific Centre of Monaco organize regular 
international  workshops  in  the  Principality  on  the 
socioeconomic  impacts  of  ocean  acidification.  After 
assessing  the  situation,  studying  the  implications  for 
fisheries  and  aquaculture  and  looking  at  the  impacts 
on coastal populations, the fourth such workshop, held 
in October 2017, focused on the effects on coral reefs.
In  conclusion,  this  year  Monaco  once  again 
expresses  its  full  confidence  in  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  and  is  pleased  to  continue  to 
co-sponsor draft resolution A/73/L.19.
Ms. Chuchotthavorn (Thailand): Thailand wishes 
to express its sincere appreciation to Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), for his statement (see A/73/315/Add.1) 
presenting the Agency’s report for 2017 (see A/73/315). 
We  also  thank  Jordan,  in  its  capacity  as  Chair  of  the 
Board  of  Governors,  for  facilitating  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.19.
The  IAEA  has  always  played  a  crucial  role 
in  promoting  the  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear 
technology.  Its  work  to  strengthen  nuclear  safety, 
security  and  safeguards  has  contributed  greatly  to 
global  security  and  development.  Against  the  current 
international  security  background  and  challenges, 
the  IAEA  continues  to  play  an  essential  role  in 
upholding 
the  principles  of  nuclear  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation.  Thailand  fully  supports  and 
commends  the  Agency’s  commitment  to  monitoring 
and verification under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action,  as  well  as  its  readiness  to  verify  the  nuclear 
programme  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea.
For  our  part,  we  wish  to  highlight  that  during 
2018,  Thailand  ratified  and  acceded  to  a  number 
of  treaties  under  the  auspices  of  the  IAEA.  They 
include  the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of 
Nuclear Material and its Amendment, the Convention 
on  Nuclear  Safety  and  the  Joint  Convention  on  the 
Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of 
Radioactive Waste Management. That is clear testament 
to our determination to fulfil international obligations 
and commitments.
18-36857
7/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
technical 
and 
cooperation 
Thailand  values  the  close  relationship  with  the 
Agency  and  has  benefited  greatly  from  the  Agency 
through 
assistance 
programmes.  This  year,  the  IAEA  designated  the 
Thailand Institute of Nuclear Technology as an IAEA 
Collaborating Centre on water resources assessment and 
management. We have also hosted 19 IAEA capacity-
building  activities,  which  covered  various  areas  such 
as  sterile  insect  technique,  cancer  control,  nuclear 
safety  and  radiation  technology.  Such  activities  and 
engagement  between  the  Agency  and  member  States 
reflect its positive contributions to the attainment of the 
Sustainable Development Goals by all States. Thailand 
looks  forward  to  continuing  that  close  relationship 
with  the  Agency  and  stands  ready  to  explore  further 
potential  areas  of  collaboration.  As  a  member  of  the 
Board of Governors for the period from 2018 to 2020, 
we are determined to work closely and constructively 
with all parties in advancing the work of the Agency.
In  conclusion,  Thailand  reaffirms  its  continued 
support for the draft resolution, and we are pleased to 
co-sponsor it.
Mr.  Benshaban  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Amano,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  for  the  report  of  the  IAEA  for  2017  (see 
A/73/315),  as  well  as  for  his  statement  presenting  the 
report, which contains complementary information on 
the main developments in the activities of the Agency 
(see  A/73/315/Add.1).  My  delegation  attentively 
took  note  of  the  report,  which  reflects  the  important 
role  played  by  the  IAEA  in  enhancing  international 
cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy and 
in  continuing  to  provide  technical  assistance  and  the 
necessary  support  to  member  States  based  on  their 
requests to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
My  delegation  encourages  the  IAEA  to  continue 
to  carry  out  its  activities  in  a  balanced  manner  that 
meets  the  needs  of  member  States  in  the  area  of 
nuclear technology to achieve effective socioeconomic 
development.  We  also  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Agency  to  support  member  States  in  implementing 
their  development  projects  in  line  with  the  Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme.  We  call  on  all 
Member States to continue to support the Programme 
and  the  Agency’s  other  monitoring  and  verification 
programmes.  Strengthening  the  Agency’s  safeguards 
regime should not adversely affect technical cooperation 
and assistance.
We are concerned about the fact that some nuclear-
weapon States have adopted  a policy of restricting the 
transfer  of  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes 
in  clear  violation  of  article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  That 
obstructs 
technical  cooperation  programmes  and 
undermines the basis of the NPT, particularly in terms 
of  denuclearization,  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  the 
inalienable right of member States to the peaceful use 
of nuclear energy.
At  the  national  level,  we  highly  commend  the 
valuable  cooperation  carried  out  with  my  country 
in  recent  years,  especially  in  the  areas  of  human 
health, underground water resources management and 
insect  pest  control,  which  are  some  of  the  priorities 
of  our  national  programme  to  meet  the  country’s 
socioeconomic  needs  and  development  requirements. 
My  country  is  committed  to  the  Agency’s  orientation 
and  will  therefore  submit  fewer  but  more  substantive 
projects  within  the  specific  priorities  of  the  national 
programme.  In 
that  regard,  we  submitted  seven 
proposals  pertaining  to  technical  assistance  projects 
for  the  period  from  2020  to  2021,  six  of  which 
were accepted.
In conclusion, we express our readiness to continue 
to cooperate with the IAEA and Member States to ensure 
the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We look forward to 
strengthening  the  Agency’s  role  in  the  verification  of 
nuclear denuclearization, given its technical capability, 
integrity  and  indisputable  professional  competence, 
as  well  as  its  legitimate  mandate.  The  adoption  of 
the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  in 
2017  constituted  a  clear  demonstration  of  the  robust 
commitment  by  the  vast  majority  of  the  international 
community to denuclearization. We hope that the IAEA 
and Member States will meet such aspirations.
Mr.  Ntsoane  (South  Africa):  We  welcome  the 
remarks  made  by  the  representative  of  Jordan  at  the 
outset  of  today’s  proceedings,  which  ably  underscore 
the  importance  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  role 
in  the  world  today.  I  would  also  like  to  convey  my 
delegation’s  sincere  appreciation 
the  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  for  his  statement  (see 
A/73/351/Add.1) presenting the IAEA’s report for 2017 
(see  A/73/315)  and  for  providing  valuable  updates  on 
the Agency’s activities in 2018.
to 
8/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
We are pleased that the IAEA Board of Governors 
continues to place greater emphasis on the development 
role of the IAEA through its activities related to nuclear 
science,  technology  and  applications.  Together  with 
other  Member  States,  South  Africa  will  continue  to 
advocate for a balanced approach to the implementation 
of the IAEA mandate, in line with its motto, “Atoms for 
Peace and Development”.
capacity  as  the  Chair  of  the  Board  of  Governors  for 
the  term  2018-2019.  The  draft  resolution,  inter  alia, 
reaffirms the indispensable role played by the Agency 
in  encouraging  and  assisting  the  development  and 
practical  application  of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful 
uses,  in  technology  transfer  to  developing  countries 
and in nuclear safety, verification and security. In that 
regard, we appreciate Jordan’s coordinating role.
South  Africa  fully  supports  the  priorities  and 
work  of  the  IAEA,  including  the  progress  achieved 
by  the  Agency  during  in  2017.  In  that  regard,  South 
Africa  has  always  maintained  that  the  Agency’s 
nuclear  applications  in  areas  such  as  agriculture  and 
crop  production,  food  security,  human  health,  water-
resource management, nuclear technology and animal 
health contribute to the socioeconomic development of 
developing countries — especially those in Africa — and 
assist them immensely in their efforts to implement the 
2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
In that context, South Africa reiterates the support 
voiced by many Member States for the IAEA to continue 
assisting  developing  countries,  particularly  in  Africa, 
to  enhance  the  benefits  that  could  be  derived  from 
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science  and  technology. 
South  Africa,  for  its  part,  has  immensely  benefitted 
from  IAEA  scientific  and  technological  support,  not 
least  in  the  strengthening  of  the  clinical  management 
of  oncological,  neurological  and  cardiovascular 
diseases.  The  IAEA  also  supported  South  Africa  in 
the development of the sterile insect technique to help 
control malaria.
Furthermore, South Africa wishes to underscore the 
central role played by the Agency in implementing its
safeguards verification system, which plays an essential 
role in verifying the peaceful nature of nuclear energy 
programmes.  As  the  only  country  to  have  voluntarily 
dismantled  its  nuclear  weapons  programme,  carried 
out  with  the  assistance  and  guidance  of  the  IAEA, 
South Africa can attest to the indispensable role of the 
Agency’s safeguards system.
In addition to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, 
South  Africa  believes  that  nuclear  disarmament  and 
nuclear  non-proliferation  are  mutually  reinforcing 
processes. Therefore, progress on all the pillars of the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is 
essential to realizing the IAEA’s object and purpose.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  has  co-sponsored 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  submitted  by  Jordan  in  its 
(Paraguay) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Carrillo  Gómez 
in 
Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on 
behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Paraguay. We 
appreciate the introduction of the report (see A/73/315) 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and 
reaffirm  our  confidence  that  the  Agency  will  ensure 
that atomic energy contributes to global peace, health 
and prosperity, as prescribed by its Statute.
to  military  ends  or 
The delegation of Paraguay stresses the importance 
of  the  nuclear  security  and  verification  activities  of 
the  IAEA,  whose  assistance  must  not  be  perverted 
to  contribute 
to  undermine 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Republic  of 
Paraguay  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the  provisions 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
and the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, 
and  welcomes  the  progress  made  and  initiatives 
undertaken by the IAEA in the fields of disarmament 
and  non-proliferation,  particularly  in  the  Middle  East 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Our 
delegation  calls  on  all  Member  States  to  support  and 
facilitate  the  Agency’s  verification  and  monitoring 
system for the application of safeguards.
Paraguay has worked intensively  to strengthen its 
coordination with the IAEA to regulate and control the 
peaceful and beneficial use of ionizing radiation sources 
and  nuclear  energy.  Over  the  past  year,  Paraguay  has 
incorporated  into  its  national  legal  system  the  Small 
Quantities  Protocols  Amendments  to  the  Agreement 
between  the  Republic  of  Paraguay  and  the  IAEA  for 
the  Application  of  Safeguards  in  connection  with  the 
1978  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
in Latin America and the Treaty, which stipulates the 
need  to  notify  the  IAEA,  in  a  timely  manner,  about 
the  possession  of  nuclear  materials  by  Paraguay 
and  the  planning  of  nuclear  facilities  in  Paraguayan 
jurisdiction.  Paraguay  has  also  incorporated  into  its 
national legal system the 1997 Joint Convention on the 
Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the  Safety 
of  Radioactive  Waste  Management,  which  regulates 
18-36857
9/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
aspects  of  the  safety  of  spent  fuel  and  radioactive 
waste management.
We emphasize that the development of programmes 
for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  their 
implementation should be carried out with transparency, 
under the guidance and supervision of the IAEA, taking 
every  possible  precaution  and  limiting  the  potential 
harm that the production of nuclear energy could cause 
to  the  environment  and  to  human  health.  States  that 
carry out such programmes on their territories should 
do so on the basis of broad cross-border responsibility, 
adhering to best practices in international cooperation, 
risk  prevention  and  due  diligence,  and  responding 
appropriately to possible transboundary damages.
Finally,  the  delegation  of  Paraguay  underlines 
the  role  of  technical  assistance  and  international 
cooperation  for  developing  countries  such  as  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay,  especially  in  developing  and 
strengthening  national  capacities  for  the  peaceful  use 
of atomic energy in the framework of efforts to achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It  therefore  calls 
for  enhancing  the  multilateral  debate  on  the  peaceful 
use of atomic energy and on disarmament and nuclear 
non-proliferation in all its aspects, within the framework 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and respect for international law.
Mr.  Sun  Lei  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese delegation thanks Mr. Yukiya Amano,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) for his presentation (see A/73/315/Add.1) of the 
Agency’s report (see A/73/315).
the  2030  Agenda 
Over  the  past  year,  the  Agency  has  effectively 
implemented 
for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  in  accordance  with  its  obligation  under  the 
Agency’s  statute  to  make  progress  in  promoting  the 
development of nuclear energy and nuclear technology 
by  Member  States,  improving  global  nuclear  security 
and safety, and safeguarding nuclear non-proliferation. 
China commends those efforts.
With  their  growing  momentum  and  wider  use, 
nuclear energy and nuclear technology are playing an 
increasingly important role in ensuring energy security, 
helping  adaptation  to  climate  change  and  achieving 
sustainable development. Meanwhile, the international 
nuclear security and nuclear non-proliferation situation 
remains grim. The risk of nuclear terrorism cannot be 
ignored,  and  global  governance  in  the  nuclear  field 
remains an uphill battle. China hopes that the Agency 
will steadfastly adhere to the purpose of atoms for peace 
and development and focus on the following tasks.
First, it must promote the development of nuclear 
energy and the application of nuclear technology. The 
Agency should continue to increase its contribution to 
promoting international exchanges and cooperation in 
nuclear energy and technology, and prioritize technical 
cooperation as a channel of support and assistance to 
nuclear-energy  development  and  nuclear-technology 
applications 
that  all 
countries can benefit from nuclear energy.
in  developing  countries,  so 
Secondly, the IAEA must improve the safeguards 
regime.  The  Agency  should  commit  to  safeguarding 
the  international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime, 
with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  as  its  cornerstone,  and  continue  to 
enhance  the  universality,  effectiveness  and  efficiency 
of  the  safeguards  system,  while  ensuring  objectivity 
and fairness. It is hoped that the IAEA secretariat will 
continue  to  engage  closely  with  Member  States  on 
national safeguards.
Thirdly, 
the  Agency  must  strengthen  global 
nuclear-energy  safety  and  nuclear  security.  China 
supports the Agency’s ongoing efforts to promote the 
implementation  of  the  nuclear  security  plan,  nuclear-
energy safety standards and nuclear-security guidelines, 
to  assist  Member  States  in  capacity-building,  to 
promote international and regional cooperation and to 
contribute to building a fair, cooperative and win-win 
international nuclear-safety system.
Fourthly, the Agency must address regional hotspot 
nuclear  issues  in  an  impartial  and  objective  manner. 
China  appreciates  the  Agency’s  efforts  to  facilitate 
the  implementation  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan 
of  Action,  which  is  conducive  to  the  maintenance  of 
the  NPT,  contributes  to  peace  and  security  in  the 
Middle East and is hence in the common interest of the 
international community.
China  supports  the  fulfilment  of  the  Agency’s 
monitoring and verifications mandate. As such, it has 
decided to contribute an additional ¥1.5 million to the 
Agency.  China  welcomes  the  recent  progress  on  the 
Korean  peninsula  and  supports  and  encourages  all 
relevant parties’ efforts to achieve denuclearization and 
lasting  peace  and  prosperity  on  the  peninsula.  China 
also supports the Agency in the playing of its due role 
10/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
in  applying  safeguards  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, pursuant to its mandate.
the 
The Chinese Government attaches great importance 
to the development of nuclear energy and consistently  
upholds 
rational,  coordinated  and  balanced 
nuclear  safety  concept  put  forward  by  President  Xi 
Jinping,  adheres  to  the  principle  of  safety  first  and 
maintains  a  good  nuclear-safety  record.  In  January, 
China  promulgated  and  implemented  a  nuclear-safety 
law  that  provides  a  further  solid  guarantee  for  the 
safe  and  sustainable  development  of  China’s  nuclear 
energy.  China  supports  and  actively  participates  in 
relevant  international  cooperation  endeavours  in  the 
field  of  nuclear  energy  and  stands  ready  to  continue 
to  strengthen  overall  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
through  the  China  Center  of  Excellence  on  Nuclear 
Security  and  the  China  Customs  Radiation  Detection 
Training Center. China is ready to carry out exchanges 
and training programmes with all parties with a view 
to making its due contribution to the promotion of the 
healthy and safe development of nuclear energy in the 
Asia-Pacific region and the world.
Mr.  Bessho  (Japan):  The  Government  of  Japan 
highly  commends  Director  General  Amano’s  work 
in  addressing  and  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  and  nuclear  non-proliferation.  Japan 
will continue to fully support the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA) and invites all Member States 
to do likewise.
Promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy 
is  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Japan supports 
Atoms  for  Peace  and  Development,  an  initiative 
undertaken by Director General Amano, as it contributes 
to  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
Japan will serve as co-Chair of the IAEA Ministerial 
Conference on Nuclear Science and Technology, which 
will  open  on  28  November.  I  would  like  to  request 
the  support  of  Member  States  for  the  success  of  the 
upcoming Conference.
In  order  to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy,  it  is  essential  that  we  strengthen  the  existing 
safeguards  that  ensure  nuclear  safety  and  security. 
IAEA  safeguards  are  an  essential  instrument  for 
nuclear  non-proliferation.  Japan  therefore  advocates 
the  universalization  of  the  additional  protocols  to  the 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  with  a  view 
to  strengthening  those  safeguards.  Japan  has  been 
striving  to  help  universalize  the  additional  protocols 
and make the safeguards more effective and efficient, 
including  by  contributing  to  the  success  of  the  IAEA 
Symposium  on  International  Safeguards,  which  was 
held  in  November,  as  well  as  the  Asia  Senior-Level 
Talks  on  Non-Proliferation  and 
the  Asia-Pacific 
Safeguards Network.
Over the past seven years, Japan has actively worked 
to  enhance  nuclear  safety,  drawing  on  the  lessons 
learned  from  the  Fukushima  Daiichi nuclear  power 
plant accident,  including  by  fundamentally  reforming 
the country’s regulatory structures. Japan will continue 
to  share  its  experiences  from  the  accident  with  the 
international  community  and  contribute  to  enhancing 
nuclear safety worldwide, including by assisting in the 
development of infrastructure and human resources in 
countries introducing new nuclear power plants.
Nuclear security is another key area of Japan’s focus. 
In view of the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, to 
be held in Tokyo, Japan and the IAEA signed practical 
arrangements  on  cooperation 
in  nuclear-security 
measures this year. On the basis of the arrangements, 
Japan will step up collaborative efforts with the IAEA 
to increase readiness to counter nuclear terrorism.
As  for  North  Korea,  at  the  Summit  between  the 
United  States  and  North  Korea  in  June,  Chairman 
Kim  Jong  Un’s  intention  to  completely  denuclearize 
the  Korean  peninsula  was  reaffirmed  in  the  form 
of  a  document.  Japan  supports  this  step  towards  the 
comprehensive resolution of the outstanding issues of 
concern  regarding  North  Korea.  Japan  reaffirms  its 
strong  commitment  to  working  with  the  international 
community  to  achieve  the  complete,  verifiable  and 
irreversible dismantlement of all North Korea’s nuclear 
weapons,  existing  nuclear  programmes  and  related 
facilities,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions. Japan calls on North Korea to take 
concrete steps towards denuclearization.
The 
international  community  needs 
to  come 
together  to  support  the  process  between  the  United 
States  and  North  Korea.  We  emphasize  the  critical 
importance  of  all  States  fully  implementing  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  and  we  call  on 
them to continue working collectively to that end. The 
IAEA Director General’s recent report notes that North 
Korea is continuing its nuclear programme. Japan calls 
for  cooperation  from  the  international  community  to 
18-36857
11/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
assist the IAEA in playing a key role in addressing that 
important issue.
Lastly,  let  me  briefly  say  a  word  on  the  Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Japan supports 
the JCPOA, which contributes to regional stability and 
to  strengthening  the  international  non-proliferation 
regime. Japan commends the IAEA’s essential role in 
the monitoring and verification of the JCPOA.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate, on behalf of 
my  Government,  Japan’s  firm  commitment  to  further 
promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and 
strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Ms. Chan (Singapore): Singapore thanks Director 
General Yukiya Amano for the comprehensive annual 
report  (see  A/73/315)  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA). We are pleased to once again 
sponsor this year’s draft resolution (A/73/L.19) on the 
Agency’s report.
Allow  me  to  make  several  points  on  the  work  of 
the IAEA.
First, Singapore has been an active member of the 
IAEA since the Agency’s establishment in 1957 and has 
benefited from the Agency’s expertise and knowledge. 
We have been privileged to serve on the IAEA Board 
of Governors for the past two years. During its tenure, 
Singapore  has  actively  contributed  to  discussions  on 
nuclear safety and security. We have advocated for the 
IAEA to enhance its nuclear-safety guidance documents 
and to ensure that they remain current with the latest 
innovations 
in  particular 
those  related  to  small  and  medium-sized  or  modular 
reactors  and  transportable  nuclear-power  plants.  We 
have  underscored  the  importance  of  strengthening 
nuclear  security  and  supported  the  IAEA’s  efforts  to 
develop  nuclear-security  guidance  on  computer  and 
information  security  through  the  Nuclear  Security 
Guidance Committee.
technology, 
in  nuclear 
Secondly,  Singapore  has  consistently  called  for 
the IAEA to provide sufficient technical assistance to 
developing  countries,  in  particular  small  States  and 
least  developed  countries,  to  help  them  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. The IAEA Ministerial 
Conference on Nuclear Science and Technology, which  
will take place in Vienna later this month, will be an 
opportunity  for  IAEA  member  States  to  discuss  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science  and  technology  and 
their contribution to sustainable development.
Singapore continues to make concrete contributions 
through  the  enhanced  Singapore-IAEA  third-country 
training programme, which was launched by Director 
General  Amano  in  Singapore  in  2015.  Over  its  past 
two  years  as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Governors, 
Singapore has conducted regional workshops on topics 
such as emergency preparedness and response, nuclear 
regulatory law and food safety.
the 
Thirdly,  we  welcome 
regional 
IAEA’s 
partnerships,  which  play  a  crucial  role 
in 
the 
fulfilment  of  the  IAEA  motto,  “Atoms  for  Peace  and 
Development”.  In  our  region,  Singapore  is  this  year’s 
chair  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
Network  of  Regulatory  Bodies  on  Atomic  Energy.  In 
June, the Network adopted a five-year work plan that 
mapped  out  the  details  of  critical  work  areas,  such 
as  the  establishment  of  a  harmonized  assessment 
and  decision-making  protocol  during  a  nuclear  or 
radiological  emergency.  The  Network  is  also  working 
closely  with  the  IAEA  to  finalize  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations-IAEA practical arrangements 
to deepen our institutional links and cooperation with 
the IAEA.
Fourthly, the IAEA has acquitted itself well over the 
past year in dealing with challenging developments in 
key dossiers such as the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea and the verification and monitoring activities 
in Iran under Security Council resolution 2231 (2015). 
Singapore  welcomes  the  recent  positive  developments 
on  the  Korean  peninsula,  including  the  inter-Korean 
summits.  We  hosted  the  summit  between  President 
Trump and Chairman Kim in June, which we hope will 
be  an  important  step  on  the  journey  towards  lasting 
peace and stability on the Korean peninsula.
its  pledge 
We  welcome 
the  stated  commitment  of 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  complete 
denuclearization  and 
to  refrain  from 
conducting  further  nuclear  and  missile  tests.  We 
urge  all  concerned  parties  to  continue  dialogue  and 
take  concrete  steps  to  implement  the  joint  statement 
of  the  Singapore  summit.  We  call  on  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  fulfil  its  international 
obligations, including those under the relevant Security 
Council resolutions, and to return to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Singapore takes 
its  obligations  under  the  relevant  Council  resolutions 
seriously and implements them fully and faithfully.
12/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
We  also  note  that  the  IAEA  has  continued  to 
verify  Iran’s  implementation  of  its  nuclear-related 
commitments  under  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action  (JCPOA).  The  JCPOA  plays  an  important  role 
in  the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation  architecture. 
We note that the remaining parties to the JCPOA have 
reaffirmed their commitment to the full and effective 
implementation  of  the  agreement,  as  long  as  Iran 
continues to fulfil its nuclear-related commitments. We 
urge  all  remaining  parties  to  continue  their  dialogue 
through  the Joint  Commission  and  other  avenues  to 
sustain this internationally negotiated agreement.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Singapore’s 
firm commitment to the work of the IAEA. Although 
Singapore  has  stepped  down  from  the  Board  of 
Governors,  we  will  continue  to  play  an  active  and 
constructive role to support the IAEA’s work.
Mr.  Djani  (Indonesia):  I  will  deliver  the  short 
version of our statement. The complete statement will 
be made available on the PaperSmart portal.
First, Indonesia would like to express its appreciation 
to  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA) 
Director  General  for  the  Agency’s  2017  report  (see 
A/73/315) and for his valuable statement (see A/73/315/
Add.1). We welcome IAEA’s efforts to provide necessary 
support to Member States and encourage its secretariat 
to pursue its programme of work in a balanced manner, 
including to share the benefits of nuclear science and 
technology for socioeconomic development.
We  appreciate  the  Agency’s  continued  support 
Indonesia  in,  among  other  things,  the  development  of 
Indonesia’s  nuclear-energy  programme;  the  revision 
process  of  Act  No.  10  of  1997,  on  nuclear  energy; 
the  management  programme  of  low-activity  disused 
sealed radioactive sources in the area of management 
of  radioactive  waste  and  disused  sealed  radioactive 
sources;  the  national  technical  cooperation  bench-to-
business  pilot  project  on  soybeans;  and  the  nuclear- 
security  measures  during  the  18th  Asian  Games  and 
the 2018 annual meeting of the International Monetary 
Fund  and  the  World  Bank  Group,  which  was  held  in 
Bali and attended by thousands of participants.
Furthermore, Indonesia provides ongoing support to 
several IAEA programmes, such as the Indonesia-IAEA 
practical arrangements, which helps the least developed 
countries  establish their  safety  infrastructure  through 
the  Agency’s  Peaceful  Uses  initiative.  Indonesia  also 
hosts  the  annual  IAEA  Regional  School  on  Nuclear 
Security  for  the  Asia  Pacific  region  and,  in  2017  and 
2018,  hosted  regional  training  courses  for  teachers 
to  introduce  nuclear  sciences  in  secondary  schools. 
In  addition,  through  the  regional  capacity-building 
initiative, my country supports IAEA programmes that 
promote resource mobilization and the optimized usage 
of regional resources for capacity-building.
Indonesia  acknowledges  and  welcomes  the  many 
important IAEA activities and programmes, including 
the  International  Symposium  on  Plant  Mutation 
Breeding  and  Biotechnology,  held  in  August;  the 
upcoming International Symposium on Understanding 
the  Double  Burden  of  Malnutrition  for  Effective 
Interventions, to be held in December; the Renovation 
of  the  Nuclear  Applications  Laboratories  project;  as 
well  as  the Site  and  External  Events  Design  Review 
Service and 
the  follow-up  Integrated  Regulatory 
Review Service.
At this juncture, we would also like to emphasize 
that  nuclear-security  efforts  must  be  pursued  in  a 
comprehensive manner that goes beyond ensuring the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  material.  Furthermore,  such 
efforts  must  not  hamper  international  cooperation  in 
the  field  of  peaceful  nuclear  activities  or  undermine 
the 
IAEA  Technical 
Cooperation Programme.
established  priorities  of 
Indonesia looks forward to opportunities to further 
strengthen its cooperation with the IAEA in 2019 and 
for  many  years  to  come,  including  in  the  area  of  the 
marine environment through the marine radioecology 
laboratory  to  be  established  in  the  north  of  Java. 
Further, we would appreciate additional support from 
the  Agency’s  Department  of  Nuclear  Energy  and 
the  Department  of  Nuclear  Safety  and  Security  to 
develop capacities related to the management of high-
activity sources.
Finally,  we  would  emphasize  that  the  purpose 
of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”, is to provide the 
States Members of the United Nations the opportunity 
to  recognize  the  activities  that  IAEA  has  undertaken 
during the reporting year and to lend their support to 
the Agency’s continuing work. We have sponsored the 
draft  resolution  and  duly  hope  that  it  will  be  adopted 
by consensus and contribute to promoting the peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy.
Ms. Sealey (Jamaica): My delegation is pleased to 
join in the annual debate on agenda item 92, “Report of 
18-36857
13/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
the International Atomic Energy Agency.” We thank the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  for  his  comprehensive  statement  and 
take  this  opportunity  to  highlight  a  number  of  issues 
that  are  of  particular  importance  to  Jamaica  under 
this item.
Cooperation Programme Framework for the period 2018-
2023. New projects will be funded under the 2020-2021 
cycle to tackle coastal and marine pollution, obesity in 
young children, and the development and use of nuclear 
cardiac  imaging  in  the  diagnosis  and  management  of 
cardiac patients with non-communicable diseases.
First, we applaud the work of the IAEA in support 
of the maintenance of international peace and security. 
We therefore note with great satisfaction that the Agency 
now implements safeguards in more than 180 countries, 
which confirms that the Agency remains indispensable 
to  strengthening  cooperation  in  the  nuclear  field  and 
to  promoting  the  safe,  secure  and  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear technologies.
Secondly,  we  continue  to  be  pleased  with  the 
level  support  being  extended  by  the  Agency  for  the 
implementation  of 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. As we draw closer to 2030, it is fitting that our 
collective efforts should be directed towards ensuring 
the attainment of the Goals, in particular those related 
to health, water and sanitation, as well as to sustainable 
and modern energy.
Thirdly, Jamaica welcomes the fact there continues 
to be such a strong focus on capacity-building through 
technical  cooperation.  We  are  deeply  appreciative  of 
the  strong  partnership  that  has  been  forged  over  the 
past 50 years of being a member of the IAEA and are 
pleased  that  it  is  a  partnership  that  continues  to  be 
deepened and strengthened. Jamaica currently has nine 
active projects, four of which commenced in January, 
under  the  2018-2019  project  cycle.  Our  projects  with 
the Agency cover a range of issues and concerns, such 
as upgrading the research reactor infrastructure at the 
University of the West Indies SLOWPOKE-2 facility; 
organizing  irrigation  water  management  to  improve 
crop  output  and  water  quality  control;  re-establishing 
nuclear-medicine  capacities;  and  building  capacity 
for cancer diagnosis and treatment services related to 
nuclear technologies. Given the work in which we are 
currently engaged with the IAEA, we look forward to 
further updates on the proposal to create a one-house 
approach to cancer-related issues as part of the ongoing 
review  of  the  Agency’s  Programme  of  Action  for 
Cancer Therapy.
We  are  honoured  to  have  received  the  Deputy 
Director  General  and  Head  of  the  Department  of 
Technical  Cooperation  of  the  IAEA,  Mr.  Dazhu 
Yang,  who  visited  Jamaica  last  month  and  signed  the 
In  addition,  Jamaica  has  hosted  a  number  of 
meetings  throughout  2018,  including  an  intermediate 
coordination meeting on developing a capacity-building 
programme  to  ensure  the  sustainable  operation  of 
nuclear  research  reactors  through  personnel  training, 
held in January, and an IAEA regional training course 
on  safeguards  implementation  in  States  with  small 
quantities protocols in May. An IAEA national training 
course on orphan source search is scheduled to be held 
in Kingston from 3 to 6 December.
Fourthly,  our  engagement  with  the  Agency  also 
extends to the regional level, as we currently participate 
in several regional and interregional projects. Therefore, 
the role of the Regional Cooperation Agreement for the 
Promotion of Nuclear Science and Technology in Latin 
America and the Caribbean remains critical.
Jamaica  remains  fully  committed  to  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  As 
we  look  to  the  third  Preparatory  Committee  for  the 
2020  Review  Conference,  we  hope  that  we  as  an 
international community will be able to fully commit 
to  the  obligations  that  have  guided  us  for  the  past  48 
years of the Treaty’s existence. We are pleased to note 
that the non-proliferation regime was also bolstered by 
the adoption last year of the Treaty on the Prohibition 
of Nuclear Weapons. We are happy to have signed the 
Treaty in December and look forward to working with 
others to advance its objectives.
In closing, Jamaica reiterates its full support to the 
Director General and his team, and assures them of our 
unswerving commitment to helping the Agency fulfil 
its mandate.
Mr. Bayyapu (India): We thank Director General 
Yukiya  Amano  for  the  2017  report  (see  A/73/315)  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
for his comprehensive statement (see A/73/315/Add.1), 
which  has  been  circulated.  The  Agency’s  report  is 
an  important  publication  for  gaining  an  appreciation 
of  the  essential  tasks  being  performed  by  the  IAEA 
both in promoting and in ensuring the peaceful use of 
nuclear energy.
14/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
India has co-sponsored draft resolution A/73/L.19, 
on  the  activities  of  the  IAEA.  Today’s  debate  is  an 
important  occasion  to  reflect  upon  the  critical  role 
that  the  IAEA  has  played  in  supporting  countries  in 
pursuit of nuclear power in a safe and secure way and 
in conducting technical cooperation activities to bring 
nuclear applications to its member States.
Nuclear  power  remains  an  important  option  for 
meeting  the  challenges  of  increased  energy  demands, 
addressing  concerns  about  climate  change,  lowering 
volatile fossil-fuel prices and ensuring the security of the 
energy supply. In that context, the IAEA International 
Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Power in the Twenty-
First Century, in Abu Dhabi, played a significant role 
in bringing policy-makers, scientists, technologists and 
environmentalists  together  to  examine  the  prospects 
of  nuclear  power.  The  Agency  needs  to  continue  its 
programmes of support for member States embarking 
on  or  expanding  their  nuclear-energy  programmes 
and,  most  importantly,  to  support  member  States  in 
enhancing their capacity to build public acceptance of 
nuclear energy.
India attaches importance to the Agency’s work in 
the  different  fields  of  nuclear  science.  We  contribute 
to  those  activities  by  participating  in  the  technical 
meetings  and  coordinated  research  projects.  The 
Agency’s  programmes  and  achievements  related  to 
nuclear  applications  in  food  and  agriculture,  health 
and nutrition, water resources management, protection 
of  the  environment  and  others  are  helpful  in  meeting 
the needs of developing countries. India will continue 
to  provide  its  support  to  those  Agency  programmes 
through  the  service  of  experts  and  offer  training 
slots  in  reputed  institutions  in  India  for  experts  from 
Member States.
Advanced fission reactors, including fast reactors, 
contribute  to  a  more  efficient  use  of  nuclear  fuel  and 
to  reducing  the  volume  of  radioactive  waste.  India 
participated actively and exchanged information on new 
developments and experience in the field of fast reactors 
and  related  technologies  during  the International 
Conference on Fast Reactors and Related Fuel Cycles, 
held in the Russian Federation in June 2017.
Thorium-based fuel cycles and technologies present 
opportunities for enhanced passive safety features and 
the utilization of the larger source of natural resources 
provided  by  thorium  and  its  inherent  proliferation 
resistance. International collaboration under the IAEA 
would  help  provide  a  much  wider  resource  base  for 
future nuclear technology development in that direction.
We support the Agency’s nuclear fusion programme. 
We are pleased to inform the Assembly that India hosted 
the  twenty-seventh  IAEA  Fusion  Energy  Conference
last month in the city of Ahmedabad. The Conference
provided a forum for the discussion of key physics and 
technology  issues,  as  well  as  innovative  concepts  of 
direct relevance to the use of nuclear fusion as a source 
of energy. With the participation of several international 
organizations,  as  well  as  the  collaboration  of  more 
than  40  countries  and  several  research  institutes, 
including those working on smaller plasma devices, the 
Conference helped to identify possibilities and means 
for continuous and effective international collaboration 
in that area.
We also take note of the Agency’s work in improving 
global safety and security. In that regard, we appreciate 
the  review  and  publication  of  safety  standards  and 
security  guidance 
international 
reference for nuclear safety and security. India remains 
committed to supporting the work of the IAEA.
that  serve  as  an 
Mr.  Kim  Song  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  taking  the  floor  to  clarify  its 
position  with  regard  to  the  nuclear  tests  described 
unfairly  in  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (see A/73/315).
Based  on  our  willingness  to  end  this  history  of 
confrontation and achieve lasting peace on the Korean 
peninsula,  we  proactively  proposed  the  establishment 
of  a  peace  region  and  the  denuclearization  of  the 
peninsula, and made sincere efforts to that end. Thanks 
to  the  initiative  and  efforts  of  the  Government  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, an atmosphere 
of  dialogue  and  cooperation,  détente  and  peace  has 
been created on the Korean peninsula, which has had 
a  positive  influence  on  progress  towards  stability  in 
North-East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region as a whole.
Significant events such as the historic inter-Korean 
summit  meetings  and 
first-ever  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea-United  States  summit 
talks  have  taken  place  and  were  welcomed  with  the 
enthusiastic  support  of  the  entire  world.  In  April, 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  took  the 
initiative  to  discontinue  nuclear  and  intercontinental 
ballistic-rocket  testing  and  irreversibly  dismantle  the 
nuclear test site. Most recently, under the observation 
the 
18-36857
15/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
of  experts  from  interested  countries,  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea began to permanently shut 
down  the  Tongchang-ri  missile-engine  testing  and 
rocket-launch facility. We also expressed our intention 
to  take  additional  measures,  such  as  the  permanent 
dismantling  of  the  nuclear  facilities  at  Nyŏngbyŏn,  if 
the  United  States  takes  corresponding  actions  in  line 
with the spirit of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea-United States joint statement of 12 June.
tests 
is  an 
important  process  for  global  nuclear  disarmament, 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s 
proactive  measures  are  a  significant  contribution  to 
international efforts towards nuclear disarmament. The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  maintains  its 
consistent position that it will faithfully implement the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-United  States 
joint statement.
The  discontinuation  of  nuclear 
Peace  and  stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula  will 
be  guaranteed  if  the  hostile  relations  that  have  lasted 
for  more  than  half  a  century  are  brought    to  an  end 
and if new relations between the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea and the United States are established 
on the basis of mutual trust and peaceful coexistence. 
Confidence-building, with the aim of removing deep-
rooted  distrust  between 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States,  should  be 
a  top  priority  in  our  efforts  to  achieve  the  complete 
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
The  report  of  the  IAEA,  which  fails  to  mention 
the positive developments that have taken place on the 
Korean peninsula this year, is fraught with prejudices 
and  distortions,  which  shows  that  the  IAEA  has  lost 
its  impartiality  as  an  international  organization  and 
is  being  manipulated  for  impure  political  purposes. 
Accordingly,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  delegation  categorically  rejects  the  report  of 
the IAEA.
The IAEA should take a fair and impartial stance 
and call upon the international community to respond 
to the goodwill measures taken by the Government of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr.  Abbani  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  the 
excellent way in which she is guiding our work.
My country has taken note of the annual report (see 
A/73/315) of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA),  which  provides  an  overview  of  the  activities 
and  achievements  of  the  Agency  in  2017  in  the  main 
areas of technological cooperation, nuclear technology, 
nuclear  safety  and  security,  as  well  as  the  safeguards 
agreements.  Given 
issues 
addressed by the report, I would like to touch upon the 
following elements.
importance  of 
the 
the 
First,  Algeria  welcomes  the  first  international 
conference  on 
the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme,  held  in  Vienna  at  the  end  of  May  2017, 
which  was  an  important  opportunity  to  address  the 
technological contributions and uses of atomic energy 
to achieve and implement the Sustainable Development 
Goals, as well as exchange experiences in that regard. We 
value the level of participation in the conference, which 
proves the engagement and interest of Member States 
in promoting and bolstering technological cooperation.
Secondly, in the light of the future expansion of the 
IAEA Technical Cooperation Programme, my country, 
which  regularly  makes  financial  contributions  to  the 
regular  budget  of  the  IAEA  and  the  Technological 
Cooperation Fund, calls for the allocation of secured, 
adequate and predictable financial resources to allow the 
Agency to fulfil its future commitments, including the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Thirdly,  within  the  framework  of  our  national 
programme to combat cancer, my country increased its 
activities  related  to  the  training  of  medical  physicists 
and  qualified  staff  in  protection  from  radioactivity. 
This  falls  under  the  implementation  of  the  action 
plan  adopted  by  Algeria  in  accordance  with  the 
recommendations of the IAEA.
Fourthly,  Algeria  has  developed  facilities  to  train 
personnel  and  maintain  nuclear  equipment  with  the 
assistance  of  the  Agency.  Those  facilities  carry  out 
periodic  training  programmes,  including  programmes 
targeting African States.
Fifthly, my country continues to make considerable 
efforts to promote technical cooperation among African 
States  within  the  framework  of  the  African  Regional 
Cooperative Agreement for Research, Development and 
Training related to Nuclear Science and Technology. In 
this regard, the four regional centres in Algeria affiliated 
with that Agreement are working to promote protection 
against nuclear radiation and improve nuclear medicine 
and food safety.
16/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
the 
in  developing 
Algeria attaches paramount importance to nuclear 
safety  and  security.  We  therefore  value  the  efforts 
of  the  IAEA  to  this  end,  given  the  Agency’s  broad 
expertise 
international  nuclear 
safety  and  security  framework.  Algeria  reaffirms  its 
principled  position  that  the  primary  responsibility  for 
nuclear  safety  and  security  in  a  given  State  lies  with 
that State. My delegation also stresses that measures for 
promoting nuclear safety and security must not hinder 
international  cooperation  in  this  area  nor  restrict  the 
priorities of the Technical Cooperation Programme, as 
defined by the Agency.
Algeria 
the 
IAEA 
At the national level, Algeria is working tirelessly 
to  promote  the  national  infrastructure  for  protection 
against  radioactivity  by  developing  a  strict  control 
system in the use of atomic radioactive devices, as well 
as  establishing  laws  and  regulations  that  ensure  and 
enhance protection from nuclear and radioactive risks.
verification 
system  to  be  an  essential  element  in  the  multilateral 
denuclearization 
regime, 
the  system. 
and  stresses 
Accordingly, 
legal 
framework for assuring non-nuclear States that nuclear 
non-proliferation commitments will be kept in line with 
the comprehensive safeguard agreements.
the  universalization  of 
the  IAEA  provides 
non-proliferation 
considers 
the  best 
and 
The provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons guarantee States parties the right 
to  develop  and  produce  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
uses.  This  inherent  right  must  not  be  prejudiced  for 
any  reason,  especially  with  respect  to  nuclear  safety 
and security.
As a State party to the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free 
the  Pelindaba 
Zone  Treaty  —  also  known  as 
Treaty — Algeria reiterates its firm commitment to the 
establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  all  over 
the  world,  given  their  importance  to  strengthening 
international peace and security.
In conclusion, Algeria reiterates its concern about 
obstacles to the establishment of a Middle East zone free 
of nuclear weapons. In this regard, we call on all States 
to support the negotiating conference to be held in 2019 
for the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons 
and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East. 
Such a conference would be an extremely practical and 
important step towards achieving security, stability and 
peace in the region and throughout the world.
(Argentina) 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish):  I  would  like  to  begin  by  thanking  Director 
General  Yukiya  Amano  for  the  comprehensive  2017 
report  (see  A/73/315)  submitted  by  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
(spoke 
The Argentine Republic has been committed to the 
work of the IAEA since its inception, and it is in this 
spirit  that  we  have  co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution 
on  the  report  (A/73/L.19).  The  Argentine  Republic 
understands  that  the  IAEA  plays  a  critical  role  in 
promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology,  a 
role that should continue to be strengthened.
It  is  impossible  for  us  to  think  of  a  future  of 
substantive  sustainability  and  energy  sustainability 
without a nuclear component as part of the global energy 
mix.  Argentina  hopes  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in  this 
process by investing in technology for nucleo-electric 
power  generation.  Argentina’s  nuclear  sector  enjoys 
a  prominent  international  profile  with  an  extensive 
development  of  nuclear  applications  for  peaceful  and 
civil use, which is of vital importance for the application 
of the international safeguards system. For this reason, 
we reiterate the importance of ensuring that activities 
for  the  implementation  of  safeguards  are  efficient, 
effective  and  based  on  a  solid  technical  foundation 
and  guarantee  their  non-discriminatory  nature.  The 
effectiveness  of  the  verification  system  implemented 
by  the  IAEA  for  nuclear  activities  is  essential  for 
preventing nuclear proliferation and is undoubtedly the 
central  pillar  on  which  the  international  community 
has worked for decades to prevent the misuse of nuclear 
materials and technologies.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Argentina considers 
it  vital  that  such  verification  measures  not  affect  the 
inalienable right of States to the development of nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  as  established  in 
article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  Argentina  wishes  to  reiterate  the 
need  for  the  safeguards  regime  and  its  guarantees  to 
be  implemented  in  an  atmosphere  of  cooperation  and 
dialogue. In this regard, we wish to highlight once again 
the  quadripartite  agreement  that  Argentina  has  with 
its  sister  country,  the  Federative  Republic  of  Brazil, 
the  Brazilian-Argentine  Agency  for  Accounting  and 
Control of Nuclear Materials (ABACC) and the IAEA, 
which,  since  1991  has  been  defining  and  regulating 
cooperation  activities  for  the  application  of  nuclear 
safeguards.  The  establishment  of  the  ABACC  was  a 
milestone,  not  only  in  terms  of  our  relationship  with 
18-36857
17/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
Brazil,  but  also  in  confidence-building  and  providing 
credible guarantees for the exclusively peaceful uses of 
nuclear development in both countries. It also served as 
a  significant  regional  contribution  because  it  enabled 
us  to  consolidate  the  idea  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
Latin America.
Argentina’s  commitment  to  the  highest  standards 
of  nuclear  safety  continues  to  be  one  of  the  pillars 
of  our  policy  in  this  area.  Our  Nuclear  Regulatory 
Authority is the independent technical and regulatory 
body designated by law to monitor all such activities, 
including  the  proper  inspection  of  the  construction 
of  reactors.  We  also  had  the  honour  to  showcase  our 
commitment  in  this  regard  by  presiding  over  the 
diplomatic  conference  held  in  2015  to  examine  the 
proposal  to  amend  article  18  of  the  Convention  on 
Nuclear  Safety,  at  which  the  Vienna  Declaration  on 
Nuclear  Safety,  which  reflected  the  interest  of  many 
States parties in continuing to strengthen technological 
security, was adopted.
Argentina wishes to highlight the achievements of 
the  seventh  review  meeting  of  the  contracting  parties 
to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety  in  2017  and  is 
committed  to  continuing  to  work  on  the  preparatory 
aspects  of  the  eighth  meeting,  which  will  take  place 
in  2020.  The  2017  Convention  was  the  first  time  a 
peer review was carried out on the implementation of 
the  principles  of  the  Vienna  Declaration  on  Nuclear 
Safety.  I  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  importance 
of  the  sixth  review  meeting  of  the  Joint  Convention 
on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the 
Safety of Radioactive Waste Management, in May and 
June,  which  enjoyed  the  participation  of  nearly  1,000 
representatives and 78 contracting parties.
its 
recognition 
and  support  for  the  work  of  the  IAEA  which  respect 
to  physical  nuclear  security.  In  this  regard,  our 
country  has  repeatedly  underscored  the  central  role 
of  the  Agency  in  articulating  and  strengthening  the 
architecture for physical nuclear security, while calling 
for  it  to  exercise  a  more  active  role  in  this  field.  Our 
country  is  involved  in  the  preparatory  work  that  will 
lead to the IAEA International Conference on Nuclear 
Security,  in  February  2020,  and  in  reviewing  the 
implementation of the amendment to the International 
Conference on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material 
and  Nuclear  Facilities,  in  2021.  We  believe  that  these 
initiatives reaffirm the essential responsibility and core 
Argentina  wishes 
to  express 
role of the IAEA in strengthening and coordinating the 
international architecture for physical nuclear security.
It  is  our  desire  that  the  IAEA  should  continue  to 
exercise its role as the main coordinator around other 
international organizations and initiatives in this area 
so that efforts on physical nuclear security and in the 
fight  against  nuclear  terrorism  can  converge  in  an 
orderly  and  sustained  manner.  I  would  also  like  to 
highlight the importance of supporting the work of the 
IAEA,  not  only  from  a  political  perspective,  but  also 
financially,  given  that  nuclear  security  is  clearly  an 
area  where  countries  must  make  their  actions  match 
their words.
We  would  also  like  to  recall  that  aspects  related 
to  physical  nuclear  security  are  the  sovereign  faculty 
of each State, and that advances and improvements to 
counteract terrorist threats must correspond to the real 
risk that each country faces. On this basis, we reaffirm 
the  need  to  harmonize  both  binding  and  non-binding 
measures  in  order  to  progress  gradually,  sustainably 
and cooperatively.
Argentina  has  been  an  active  participant  in  and 
aspires to become a focal point for conducting training 
activities in the region. In this regard, our country has 
offered  to  host  several  activities  related  to  education, 
training and human resources in the field of peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy, under the auspices of the IAEA. 
Argentina  will  continue  to  work  with  the  Agency’s 
Technical Cooperation Programme, where we offer our 
experience  in  and  facilities  for  training  and  capacity-
building,  which  have  already  benefited 
technical 
personnel and professionals both from our region and 
around the world.
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I thank 
the distinguished Director General of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  his  report  (see 
A/73/315).
Today,  nuclear  energy  is  part  and  parcel  of 
the  socioeconomic  development  of  our  societies. 
Accordingly,  all  States, 
in  particular  developing 
countries, must have free and indiscriminate access to 
all  benefits  of  nuclear  energy.  From  this  perspective, 
Iran stresses the great importance of the full realization 
of the inalienable right of any State to develop research, 
production  and  uses  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes, which includes the inherent right of each State 
to develop a full national nuclear-fuel cycle for peaceful 
purposes. Likewise, they have the right to participate in 
18/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
the  fullest  possible  exchange  of  equipment,  materials 
and  scientific  and  technological  information  for  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
These  inherent  rights  have  also  been  reaffirmed 
in  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.  Accordingly,  developed  States  parties  are 
obliged  to  cooperate  in  the  further  development  of 
applications  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes, 
especially  in  developing  countries.  In  this  context, 
article II of the IAEA Statute mandates the Agency to 
seek to accelerate and enlarge the contribution of atomic 
energy to peace, health and prosperity throughout the 
world. For this reason, Iran emphasizes the importance 
of  the  Agency’s  statutory  functions  and  primary 
responsibility  in  assisting  Member  States  in  research 
on, and the practical application of, nuclear energy for 
peaceful  purposes.  Appreciating  the  related  activities 
of the Agency, Iran stresses the need for their further 
enhancement,  particularly  to  meet  the  expectations 
of developing countries. It should be ensured that the 
Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  remains 
firm  and  sustainable  through  sufficient,  assured  and 
predictable financial and human resources.
the  verification  of 
Iran underlines that the IAEA is the sole competent 
authority  responsible  for 
the 
fulfilment of safeguards obligations. Related functions 
of the Agency should be carried out in full conformity 
with the relevant legally binding instruments and take 
into  account  the  concerns  and  interests  of  Member 
States, particularly in strict observance of the principle 
of confidentiality.
Iran 
is  determined 
to  vigorously  continue 
exercising  its  inalienable  right  to  nuclear  energy, 
including  the  development  of  a  full  national  nuclear-
fuel  cycle  for  peaceful  purposes,  which  is  essential 
for  its  socioeconomic  development.  All  accusations 
against  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  were  baseless  from 
the beginning; the crisis was manufactured to sustain 
pressure  on  Iran.  However,  the  crisis  came  to  an  end 
with the conclusion of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action (JCPOA), which was the outcome of lengthy and 
intensive multilateral diplomatic efforts undertaken to 
resolve an artificial crisis and build trust.
Now, according to the IAEA, Iran is subject to the 
most  robust  nuclear  verification  regime.  Likewise,  in 
its  12  consecutive  reports,  the  IAEA  has  confirmed 
Iran’s  full  compliance  with  its  commitments  under 
the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan.  However,  in  violation 
of  its  international  commitments,  the  current  United 
States  Administration  withdrew  from  the  JCPOA 
and  reimposed  its  illegal  sanctions  against  Iran.  The 
United  States  continues 
to  systematically  violate 
its  commitments  under  the  JCPOA  and  Security 
Council  resolution  2231  (2015).  It  is  now  brazenly 
forcing  others  to  either  violate  resolution  2231  (2015) 
or  face  punishment.  All  such  illegal  measures  of  the 
United  States  have  been  rejected  by  the  international 
community,  including  by  almost  all  its  friends  and 
allies. The United States policy towards the JCPOA and 
resolution 2231 (2015) clearly indicates that, even in the 
past, they did not have any genuine concern about Iran’s 
nuclear  programme.  They  openly  lied  in  expressing 
concern  over  this  programme  only  to  continue  their 
animosity towards Iran.
In a statement made on 2 November, the European 
Union  High  Representative,  Federica  Mogherini,  and 
the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Finance of France, 
Germany  and  the  United  Kingdom  called  the  JCPOA 
a  key  element  of  the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation 
architecture  and  of  multilateral  diplomacy  —  and 
crucial  for  the  security  of  Europe,  the  region  and  the 
entire  world.  Therefore,  to  ensure  the  continuity  of  a 
document as important as the JCPOA, the international 
community  must  remain  vigilant  and  not  allow  itself 
to  be  deceived  once  again  by  the  fabrications  of  the 
United  States,  which  are  rooted  solely  in  its  hostility 
towards Iran.
Iran has been and will remain fully committed to 
the JCPOA, inasmuch as all other JCPOA participants 
also  fulfil  their  related  commitments  in  a  complete 
and 
timely  manner.  The  JCPOA  acknowledges 
Iran’s  discretionary  right  to  cease  performance  of  its 
commitments under the agreement in whole or in part 
if the lifted sanctions under the deal are reintroduced or 
reimposed. Paragraphs 26 and 36 reflect the common 
understanding  at  the  time  of  negotiations  that  any 
reimposition of sanctions gives Iran the right to respond 
by wholly or partially ceasing to perform its reciprocal 
measures under the agreement.
The Islamic Republic of Iran has made it very clear 
on various occasions that the reimposition of sanctions 
was  a  grave  material  breach  of  the  JCPOA.  Iran  has 
called upon the remaining participants of the JCPOA to 
hold the United States accountable for the consequences 
of its reckless, wrongful act, and stated that, in order to 
maintain implementation of the JCPOA in its totality, 
the  remaining  JCPOA  participants  needed  to  provide 
18-36857
19/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
objective  guarantees  that  Iran  would  be  compensated 
unconditionally 
the  appropriate  national, 
regional and global measures.
through 
The  JCPOA  participants  are  therefore  urged  to 
fulfil  all  their  commitments  in  a  genuine  spirit.  This 
is  indeed  in  the  interest  of  the  JCPOA  participants 
and the international community of States as a whole. 
Therefore, current support for the full implementation 
of  the  JCPOA  by  all  its  participants  needs  to  be 
maintained.  Likewise,  in  line  with  the  principles 
embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and in 
support of multilateralism, the international community 
has a responsibility to preserve the JCPOA by rejecting 
the illegal unilateral measures of the United States.
Mr. Trejo Blanco (El Salvador) (spoke in Spanish): 
I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of 
the Republic of El Salvador.
At the outset, allow me to express my appreciation 
to  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano  for  presenting 
the  report  (see  A/73/315)  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  on  the  Agency’s  activities 
during 2017.
The draft resolution on the report of the IAEA that 
is approved by the General Assembly each year is based 
on the agreement between the United Nations and the 
Agency signed in 1957. The draft resolution reaffirms 
the  indispensable  role  of  the  Agency  in  aiding  the 
development  and  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes,  the  transfer  of  technologies  to  developing 
countries  and  in  maintaining  a  nuclear  security  and 
verification regime.
My  delegation  believes  that  this  is  a  unique 
opportunity  to  keep  abreast  of  the  activities  that  the 
Agency has undertaken during the reporting period, as 
well as to provide Member States with the opportunity 
to engage in and support the Agency’s ongoing work. 
We  welcome  the  decisions  adopted  by  the  General 
Conference  of  the  IAEA  at  its  sixty-second  session, 
held from 17 to 21 September.
In this context, my country recognizes the sovereign 
right  to  exploit  and  make  use  of  nuclear  technologies 
exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes,  as  established  in 
article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  At  the  same  time,  we  reaffirm 
our  obligation  to  work  towards  general  and  complete 
disarmament  as  the  only  means  of  guaranteeing 
international peace and stability.
At  the  global  level,  our  countries  must  continue 
to promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy, science 
and technology for exclusively peaceful purposes and 
prevent  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  which 
will  enable  us  to  continue  contributing  to  sustainable 
development and world peace. My country is aware of 
the  benefits  of  nuclear  technology  for  the  peoples  of 
the  world,  not  only  in  generating  nuclear  power,  but 
also in various areas such as health, agriculture, food 
security, the environment and research, inter alia. For 
this reason, El Salvador is convinced that, through joint 
work,  cooperation  and  the  establishment  of  synergies 
between  countries  for  the  proper  and  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  technology,  it  is  possible  to  achieve  excellent 
results that foster scientific development for the benefit 
of our populations.
In  particular,  El  Salvador  wishes  to  highlight  the 
important role of the Programme of Action for Cancer 
Therapy  in  examining  and  strengthening  its  national 
capacities  for  cancer  control.  We  hope  to  be  able  to 
work more closely in future with a view to improving 
the efficiency of radiological medicine services as part 
of an comprehensive framework for cancer control, and 
in supporting the training of health professionals.
We  would  therefore  like  to  reiterate  that  it  is 
indispensable  for  countries  to  join  with  the  IAEA  in 
working  to  ensure  that  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  is 
used to increase health coverage and quality and food 
production  and  supply,  as  well  as  promote  the  more 
effective  prevention  and  reduction  of  the  negative 
impacts  of  climate  change  and  greater  attention  to 
natural disasters, among other aspects of high priority 
for  my  country  that  contribute  to  achieving  true 
human development.
El Salvador appreciates the constant and invaluable 
support  of  the  IAEA  for  the  implementation  and 
strengthening of the uses of atomic energy in technology 
and  science,  which  has  enabled  my  country  to  make 
important strides in terms of its uses. It therefore hopes 
to continue to deepen its bilateral cooperation relations 
with  the  IAEA,  in  recognition  of  its  important  value 
added as an agency.
are 
We 
currently  preparing  our  national 
programme  framework  for  the  period  2018-2023,  in 
order  to  continue  strengthening  cooperation  between 
El Salvador and the IAEA, a mechanism that facilitates 
the alignment of the Agency’s work with the priorities 
of the Government of El Salvador. Moreover, in order 
20/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
to  contribute  to  global  efforts  aimed  at  achieving 
effective  nuclear  physical  security  and  ensuring  the 
efficient  implementation  of  international  instruments, 
my country is pleased to announce that it has joined the 
Incident  and  Trafficking  Database  programme,  which 
is a system that has confirmed its relevance in detecting 
incidents  and  preventing  them  when  they  are  related 
to  illicit  trafficking  or  the  malicious  use  of  nuclear 
energy, in support of and ensuring the peaceful use of 
nuclear energy.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our  firm 
commitment to continuing working hand in hand with 
the Agency, and we urge Member States to continue to 
support the activities of the IAEA.
Mr.  Hassan  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Egypt 
welcomes  the  General  Assembly’s  imminent  adoption 
by  consensus  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  of  which 
it is a co-sponsor, on the annual report (see A/73/315) 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Director  General  of 
the  Agency  and  the  Jordanian  delegation  in  drafting 
the  report  and  in  preparing  and  submitting  the  draft 
resolution, respectively.
As one of the founding States of the IAEA, Egypt 
was one of the very first countries to use atomic energy 
for  peaceful  purposes  and  is  now  building  a  nuclear 
reactor.  Accordingly,  we  attach  great  importance  to 
the Agency’s activities in the areas of the peaceful uses 
of  nuclear  energy  and  the  promotion  of  international 
cooperation  and  technical  support,  as  well  as  nuclear 
safeguards,  verification,  safety  and  security.  We 
support the efforts of the Agency and the activities of 
its Secretariat in all of these areas, under the leadership 
of  the  Director  General,  particularly  at  a  time  when 
we  are  preparing  to  launch  our  first  national  plant  to 
generate electricity using nuclear energy.
Egypt calls once again for efforts to be stepped up 
to  provide  the  Agency  with  the  financing  and  human 
resources  it  needs  to  complete  its  tasks  in  terms  of 
technical cooperation and in striking a balance among 
its  three  pillars,  in  line  with  its  Statute  and  fulfilling 
its raison d’être. Proper support for the Agency would 
also ensure the continuity and stability of the Agency’s 
activities  in  promoting  all  forms  of  peaceful  use  of 
atomic  energy,  especially  in  developing  countries, 
while taking into account the fact that the peaceful use 
of atomic energy in all its forms and manifestations is 
an inalienable right.
In  the  same  vein,  Egypt  is  striving  to  ensure  the 
success  of  the  ministerial  meeting  on  nuclear  science 
and technology to be held in Vienna in November. As 
a member of the IAEA Board of Governors, Egypt is 
also working to support the Agency’s activities in the 
areas  of  technical  cooperation  and  nuclear  safety  and 
security, while devoting the  necessary attention to the 
Agency’s development role and the interests of African 
States and the Group of 77 and China.
to 
issue 
Egypt  reaffirms  that  the  IAEA  is  the  sole  entity 
internationally  mandated 
verification 
reports  on  States’  compliance  with  the  obligations 
of  the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  regime. 
In  addition,  in  accordance  with  the  IAEA  Statute, 
the  Agency  also  plays  a  vital  role  in  galvanizing 
denuclearization  efforts;  in  verifying  the  dismantling 
of nuclear weapons, thereby assuming an important role 
in the maintenance of international peace and security; 
and  in  implementing  all  obligations  set  forth  in  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT), particularly article VI.
Egypt  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Agency’s 
activities in implementing safeguards and in impartially 
and  independently  verifying  the  non-diversion  of 
nuclear  materials  from  exclusively  peaceful  uses, 
pursuant to the Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement, 
which is the legal basis for this aspect of the work of 
the  Agency,  under  the  NPT.  To  fully  achieve  these 
ends, the Agreement must be universally adopted. We 
also stress that strengthening the Agency’s safeguards 
system  should  not  entail  any  commitment  beyond  the 
contractual obligations provided for in the NPT. Indeed, 
applying  safeguards  at  the  State  level  requires  the 
consent of the country concerned, not just consultations 
with it.
In conclusion, Egypt looks forward to the Agency’s 
implementation  of  the  mandate  provided  for  in  the 
recently  adopted  General  Conference  resolution  on 
applying  the  IAEA  safeguards  in  the  Middle  East, 
which  would  establish  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of 
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction 
(GC(62)/RES/12).  We  also  look  forward  to  the  taking 
of  the  steps  necessary  to  implement  the  resolution, 
given  the  important  developments  that  took  place  in 
the First Committee at its current session, namely, the 
adoption  of  a  draft  decision  calling  on  the  Secretary-
General to convene a conference on this topic in 2019 
(A/C.1/73/L.22/Rev.1).
18-36857
21/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
Ms. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Cuba  recognizes  and  supports  the  important  work  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in 
pursuit of sustainable peace and development, as well 
as  the  advances  made  during  the  recent  period.  The 
achievement  of  the  objective  of  nuclear  disarmament 
has been and will continue to be the highest priority in 
the field of disarmament.
We 
the 
of 
recognize 
contribution 
the 
implementation  of  the  IAEA  safeguards  verification 
system, which is essential to certify the peaceful nature 
of nuclear-energy programmes. We also appreciate the 
indispensable and significant contribution of the IAEA 
in the promotion and development of the application of 
nuclear technologies in such key areas for the economy 
and  society  as  human  health,  with  special  attention 
to 
the  cancer-control  programme,  food  security, 
agriculture and environmental protection.
In  2017,  in  the  area  of  technical  cooperation,  our 
country  achieved  an  implementation  rate  of  96.5  per 
cent  in  projects  with  the  Agency  and  took  part  in  50 
regional  projects.  We  carried  out  19  training  courses 
in  the  form  of  scholarships  and  scientific  visits,  and 
participated  in  55  courses  and  49  technical  meetings. 
During the period, 90 expert missions were carried out 
in different countries. Our country hosted scholarship 
holders and scientific visitors from abroad, as well as  
six regional events.
We  will  continue  cooperating  with  developing 
countries and sharing the results and experiences of our 
years of technical cooperation with the IAEA. Given the 
importance  of  continuing  to  support  the  development 
and  promotion  of  nuclear  applications  and  technical 
cooperation in developing countries and to assist in the 
transfer  of  technology  to  those  countries,  the  Agency 
must  redouble  its  efforts  to  increase  the  resources  of 
the Technical Cooperation Programme, with the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development as its main focus.
Our  country  firmly  supports  the  inalienable  right 
of  all  States  to  develop  research,  production  and  use 
of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  without 
any  discrimination  or  conditions.  Cuba  reiterates  its 
rejection  of  and  demands  the  immediate  lifting  of 
any  kind  of  limitations  and  restrictions  on  exports 
to  developing  countries  of  materials,  equipment  and 
technologies for peaceful nuclear activities.
We reject the United States Government’s decision 
to  withdraw  from  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action  and  to  reimpose  unilateral  sanctions  against 
Iran. It is unjustified, contrary to international law, and 
contravenes  the  norms  of  coexistence  among  States, 
and, as a result, could lead to  serious consequences for 
stability  and  security,  thereby  distancing  us  from  the 
objective of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in 
the Middle East.
We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  establishment  of 
a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of 
mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  In  this  regard, 
we  deeply  regret  the  fact  that  the  conference  planned 
for this purpose has not yet been held, and we support 
the  initiative  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  to  hold  a 
conference  no  later  than  June  2019  to  commence 
negotiations on a legally binding treaty on the issue.
Last year, the Republic of Cuba deposited with the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency its instrument of ratification of the Convention 
on  Nuclear  Safety  and  its  instrument  of  accession 
to  the  Joint  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel 
Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management. That shows our country’s unquestionable 
commitment 
effective 
management  of  nuclear  physical  security  does  not 
admit exclusions or selectivity. The framework for the 
adoption of international standards on physical security 
is  the  IAEA,  which  must  be  the  result  of  transparent 
and 
the 
participation of all States.
inclusive  multilateral  negotiations,  with 
safety.  The 
to  nuclear 
The  entry  into  force  of  the  amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material should provide greater protection for nuclear 
facilities  and  materials;  facilitate  cooperation  among 
States parties to prevent and combat crimes involving 
the use of radioactive and nuclear materials; and ratify 
the peaceful use of nuclear energy. The possibility of 
a  terrorist  attack  using  nuclear  materials  cannot  be 
eliminated through a selective approach that is limited 
to horizontal proliferation and that disregards vertical 
proliferation and disarmament.
Finally, we congratulate the IAEA on its work and 
outstanding contribution to issues of such importance 
as  climate  change,  combating  desertification  and 
drought,  food  security  and  the  treatment  of  diseases, 
as well as the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change.
22/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
Mr. Fadhil (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation 
to  Mr.  Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  presenting  the 
Agency’s  annual  report,  which  outlines  the  IAEA’s 
achievements and activities in 2017 (see A/73/315). We 
also express our sincere thanks to the delegation of the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, in its capacity as Chair 
of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  for  facilitating  the 
draft resolution before us (A/73/L.19).
in  providing 
technical  cooperation 
Iraq  emphasizes  the  primacy  of  the  Agency’s 
activities 
to 
developing countries, including my own. When we use 
nuclear technology in such areas as health, agriculture, 
food, water resources, radioactive isotopes and radiation 
technology, we are benefiting from programmes created 
by the IAEA.
The  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  is  one 
of  the  Agency’s  principal  means  for  promoting  and 
transferring nuclear technology to achieve sustainable 
socioeconomic  progress  in  developing  nations,  in 
accordance with its Statute. The Programme is a joint 
responsibility of the Agency and its member States, and 
it  is  implemented  according  to  the  requirements  and 
needs of its members. If the Programme is to succeed, 
concerted efforts are necessary, as is the provision of 
sufficient guaranteed resources that are proportional to 
the resources allocated to the Agency’s other activities, 
pursuant to the Statute.
At the national level, despite the huge challenges it 
faced, my Government achieved great success when it 
liberated some of the hot spots of terrorism, the most 
recent  of  which  was  the  Nineveh  governorate,  which 
we  rid  of  Da’esh  terrorist  gangs.  Nevertheless,  while 
facing  such  challenges,  Iraq  ratified  the  Convention 
on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts 
of  Nuclear  Terrorism  and  adopted  measures  needed 
to  implement  these  conventions  through  specialized 
committees set up for that purpose.
My Government is working steadfastly to dispose 
of nuclear waste and address other challenges through 
direct  coordination  with  and 
technical 
cooperation  from  the  IAEA.  These  tasks  are  being 
accomplished  entirely  upon  Iraq’s  initiative  and  on 
national  policies  adopted  by  our  Government  on  the 
management  of  radioactive  waste  arising  from  the 
tailored 
dismantling  of  previously  destroyed  nuclear  sites,  as 
well as from medical, industrial and oil installations.
With regard to organizational issues around nuclear 
and  radioactive  activity,  my  Government  has  made 
important  strides,  including  Law  No.  43,  enacted  in 
2016, which established an atomic energy commission 
in Iraq. We are currently taking the steps necessary for 
this commission to start its operations.
My Government believes that the establishment of 
a Middle East free of nuclear weapons and weapons of 
mass destruction is one of the fundamental steps that 
need  to  be  taken  to  ensure  the  security  and  stability 
of  the  region.  However,  the  sensitive  and  dangerous 
developments 
international 
level  in  general  and  in  the  Middle  East  in  particular 
compel the international community to take collective 
responsibility  for  the  situation  and  require  concerted 
efforts aimed at the establishment of such a zone.
taking  place  at 
the 
Accordingly, my delegation once again emphasizes 
the vital role played by the United Nations and the three 
depository States of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in convening a conference 
to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle 
East as soon as possible, in line with the 1995 resolution 
on the Middle East and the Action Plan set forth in the 
Final Document of the 2010 NPT Review Conference. 
Furthermore,  this  year,  the  First  Committee  adopted 
a  draft  decision  (A/C.1/73/L.22/Rev.1),  whose  text 
was introduced by the League of Arab States, calling 
on  the  Secretary-General  to  extend  an  invitation  to 
the  countries  of  the  region,  the  three  sponsors  of  the 
1995  resolution  on  the  Middle  East  responsible  for 
its  implementation,  and  other  relevant  international 
organizations, to participate in a conference to negotiate 
a  treaty  to  establish  a  zone  free  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction and nuclear weapons in 2019.
Iraq  believes  that  the  Israeli  entity  must  start  its 
denuclearization  process  and  accede  to  the  NPT  as  a 
non-nuclear State. Its nuclear facilities must be subjected 
to  the  Comprehensive  Safeguards  Agreement  of  the 
IAEA, which is an urgent and extremely important step 
that  must  be  taken  in  order  to  ensure  the  successful 
establishment of such a zone.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  emphasizes  once 
again  that  it  is  the  inalienable  right  of  all  States, 
especially  developing  States,  to  develop  peaceful 
nuclear  programmes.  Such  programmes  can  lead  to 
those States’ unhindered development, circumvent the 
18-36857
23/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
monopolies of a specific group of States and avoid the 
imposition  of  internationally  binding  conditions  that 
affect developing States’ interests.
Mr.  Syrymbet  (Kazakhstan):  On  behalf  of  the 
delegation of Kazakhstan, I wish to express our sincere 
thanks  to  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
for  presenting  the  sixty-second  report  of  the  Agency, 
for  the  calendar  year  2017  (see  A/73/315).  The  report 
reflects the Agency’s balanced and effective policy in 
its key mandates of nuclear safety and security and the 
prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons, as well as 
the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
the 
Kazakhstan fully supports the Agency’s activities 
transfer  and  development  of 
in  promoting 
technologies  related  to  peaceful  nuclear  applications. 
Over  the  past  few  years,  our  country  has  contributed 
more than $1 million to the relevant Agency funds. We 
intend  to  further  develop  our  technical  cooperation 
with  the  IAEA  for  its  ongoing  programmes  and  new 
explorations and innovations.
Kazakhstan  welcomes 
the  Agency’s  activities 
related  to  implementing  safeguards.  We  believe  that 
the  Agency  system  is  the  most  effective  instrument 
for  supporting  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime. 
Kazakhstan  supports  the  preservation  and  further 
unfailing  implementation  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive 
Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA).  We  commend  the  IAEA 
for  its  continued  work  on  the  verification  of  the 
implementation of the JCPOA.
supported 
We  wholeheartedly 
the  Agency’s 
proposed project to establish the IAEA Low Enriched 
Uranium (LEU) Bank. We are proud that last year, the 
IAEA  LEU  Bank  storage  facility  was  inaugurated  in 
Kazakhstan and believe that it will make a significant 
contribution  to  the  development  of  peaceful  uses 
of  nuclear  energy  and  thereby  strengthen  global 
nuclear security.
Having traditionally and annually co-sponsored the 
draft resolution on the report of the IAEA, Kazakhstan 
supports  draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  entitled  “Report 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”.  With 
our  deep  conviction  and  commitment,  we  are  indeed 
pleased  to  endorse  the  Agency’s  important  role  in 
fulfilling its mandate to promote the peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy  and  in  further  advancing  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime.
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh  takes 
note  of  the  report  (see  A/73/315)  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and thanks Mr. Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General,  for  his  able  leadership  of 
the Agency.
During the reporting period, in our national context, 
we  have  started  construction  of  the  Rooppur  Nuclear 
Power  Plant,  the  first  in  Bangladesh,  under  bilateral 
cooperation arrangements with the Russian Federation. 
Following  the  delivery  of  a  design  and  construction 
licence  from  Bangladesh’s  atomic  energy  regulatory 
authority, the first concrete for Units 1 and 2 of the plant 
was  poured  on  30  November  2017  and  14  July  2018, 
respectively.  Furthermore,  following  the  Agency’s 
guidelines,  the  relevant  Bangladeshi  authorities  are 
implementing  the  integrated  work  plan  for  national 
infrastructure  developed  with  the  support  of  IAEA. 
Work  has  already  started  for  recruiting  and  training 
personnel for the safe operation and maintenance of the 
nuclear-power plant.
Bangladesh  reposes  its  full  confidence  in  the 
guiding role of the IAEA in coordinating international 
efforts  to  strengthen  global  nuclear  safety,  security 
and  safeguards  when  it  comes  to  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes. Bangladesh underscores 
the importance of the Agency’s ongoing efforts aimed 
at  supporting  member  States  in  sharing  knowledge, 
expertise,  technology  and  information  on  all  aspects 
of nuclear safety. We acknowledge the Agency’s work 
in  maintaining,  improving  and  promoting  nuclear, 
radiation,  transport  and  waste  safety,  as  well  as 
emergency preparedness and response worldwide.
We attach importance also to the Agency’s ongoing 
efforts  aimed  at  assisting  member  States,  upon  their 
request, in building and developing their nuclear-security 
capacity, which includes supporting the establishment 
of  effective,  sustainable  and  comprehensive  national 
nuclear-security infrastructure. Bangladesh subscribes 
to the view that the responsibility for nuclear security 
within a State rests entirely with the concerned State. 
We also underline that nuclear-security considerations 
should not hamper the utilization of nuclear technology 
for  peaceful  purposes,  nor  should  it  negatively  affect 
international cooperation in that regard.
The  Agency’s  work  in  nuclear  power  and  nuclear 
applications continues to underline the need to increase 
the  transfer  and  sharing  of  nuclear  technology  and 
knowledge with developing countries. In this context, 
24/26 
18-36857
09/11/2018 
A/73/PV.34
in  addressing 
riverbank  erosion 
we  recall  the  signing  of  the  country  programme 
framework for 2018-2023 with the Agency’s Department 
of Technical Cooperation in September. The framework 
includes, inter alia, support for a study to use nuclear 
techniques 
in 
Bangladesh, which is already being accelerated owing 
to  climate  change.  We  urge  the  IAEA  to  continue 
to  support  our  efforts  to  develop  nuclear-science 
education  and  research  capacity;  promote  medical 
research  on  cancer  therapy  and  medical  treatment  for 
certain diseases; increase food production and ensure 
food  safety;  ameliorate  the  environment  and  develop 
irradiated crop varieties.
Bangladesh  actively  participated  in  the  sixty-
second  session  of  the  IAEA  General  Conference  in 
September.  We  support  the  continuation  of  IAEA’s 
mandated  work  on  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action on the question of the Islamic Republic of Iran’s 
nuclear  programme.  We  also  support  the  application 
of  the  Agency’s  safeguards  in  the  Middle  East, 
including  by  pursuing  the  objective  of  establishing  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  region.  We  take  note 
of the adoption without a vote of the resolution on the 
implementation of the Agreement between the Agency 
and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea for the 
application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
In  conclusion,  Bangladesh 
thanks  Jordan  for 
facilitating the adoption of the draft resolution on the 
report of the IAEA (A/73/L.19).
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 92.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.19,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”. I now give the 
floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  document  A/73/L.19,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania, 
Algeria, Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Chile,  Costa  Rica,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Guatemala,  Lithuania,  Malaysia, 
Malta,  Mexico,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  the 
Philippines,  Romania,  the  Russian  Federation,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  South  Africa,  the  Sudan, 
Sweden, Tajikistan, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab 
Emirates, the United States of America and Uzbekistan.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/73/L.19?
Draft resolution A/73/L.19 was adopted (resolution 
73/9).
The  Acting  President:  I  shall  now  call  on  those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right  of  reply.  I  would  like  to  remind  members  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five  minutes  for  the  second,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Hallak  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  The  performance  of  the  observer  of  the 
European Union (EU) confirmed once again our doubts 
and those felt by many Member States with regard to 
resolution  65/276,  which  was  submitted  and  adopted 
several years ago to grant observer status to the EU and 
to  give  it  the  right  to  speak  at  the  United  Nations.  It 
seems to us that the endorsement by Member States of 
that resolution was a great mistake.
The States members of the EU are responsible for 
two  world  wars  that  killed  nearly  100  million  people 
and  destroyed  the  world  at  that  time.  The  EU  enjoys 
observer status at the United Nations, and we call on it 
not  to  compete  with  the  United  Nations  by  allocating 
awards  and  sanctions  to  Member  States.  The  EU  is  a 
mere  observer  here,  and  the  representative  of  the  EU 
must learn that lesson and recognize his own limitations.
It  is  shameful  to  the  General  Assembly  that  the 
representative of the EU criticizes certain States in his 
statement and directs accusations against them. What 
he included in his statement confirms the fact that the 
EU is playing the role of devil’s advocate. Its statement 
did not even criticize the Israeli entity, which  represents 
the real and perhaps only danger in our region and the 
world owing to its possession of huge arsenals of nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, as well 
as their means of delivery, as they could reach beyond 
our local region with no international control. There is 
a  clear  reason  why  the  EU  has  not  made  accusations 
against  Israel  for  possessing  nuclear  weapons.  It  is 
because certain States of the EU have provided Israel 
with nuclear reactors, heavy water, nuclear technology 
18-36857
25/26
A/73/PV.34 
09/11/2018
and submarines capable of launching nuclear weapons 
as well as other means of delivery.
The  EU  should  be  the  last  to  raise  the  issue  of 
non-proliferation,  especially  given  that  four  of  its 
member States and one other State which seeks to join the 
EU have stationed nuclear weapons on their territories, 
in grave violation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Many EU countries are in 
violation  of  their  own  obligations  under  the  NPT  and 
other conventions of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency. That is because they cooperate with Israel to 
bolster its military capacities, especially the capacities 
of  the  Israeli  military  nuclear  programme,  as  well  as 
Israel’s programmes related to other weapons of mass 
destruction.  Those  countries  also  provide  Israel  with 
expertise,  material  and  technology,  in  addition  to 
assisting  Israel  in  making,  possessing  and  developing 
nuclear weapons.
If the EU were honest in its statement with regard 
to supporting a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle 
East, its member States would have voted in favour of the 
draft decision recently adopted by the First Committee 
(A/C.1/73/L.22/Rev.1) that calls for the convening of a 
conference  in  2019  on  the  establishment  of  a  Middle 
East zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons 
of mass destruction. However, the EU countries did not 
support  the  convening  of  such  a  conference,  which  is 
proof of the hypocritical character of the EU statement 
and its clumsy policies.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 92?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.
26/26 
18-36857
